A rabid stray dog rampaged through the East Coast biting at least six people and 10 dogs on the weekend. Left untreated, rabies is a fatal disease, and state veterinarian Dr Stuart Varrie urged people to use the free inoculation clinics today at Chintsa East business area and Chintsa West restaurant between noon and 3pm.Yesterday six teams with loud hailers swept through farms and settlements, inoculating and putting down 12 infected dogs.This was after the 15kg black-and-tan mixed-breed dog cut a 10km swathe of snarling destruction from near the N2 to the beach at Chintsa West.The dog, suffering from what is known in medical terms as furious rabies , was eventually shot dead by resident Dave Emslie as it charged at a shopkeeper in Chintsa West on Sunday afternoon.The Dispatch yesterday discovered that on its path the dog had drawn blood or gashed woodcutter Thembelethu Mtati, farmer Lynette Wilhelm, an East London partygoer at Buccaneers Backpackers, a Bucs security guard, and Rendezvous resident Fanie Brits.There were a number of close calls. One woman chased the dog off her couch, said Shelly Turner, who first raised the alarm in a Facebook post.The dog apparently also bit a woman on the arm at Chintsa and one other person, but did not break the skin or pass on its infected saliva.Dr Varrie warned that furious rabies made its host unpredictable and hyper aggressive . It attacked other dogs but could also have attacked cats, horses, sheep and goats.He said the area from Kwelera Chintsa rivers and inland to the N2 was an endemic rabies area. Rabies is fatal for animals and humans [if not treated]. People have a legal obligation to vaccinate their dogs and cats every year. Provincial government spokesman Sizwe Kupelo appealed to anyone who came into contact with the dog or was bitten to immediately seek a doctor. You will need a series of injections. If the dog had rabies you are at high risk. If you leave it untreated you will die. Gonubie vet Dr Alan Southey said that in 10 years there had never been as many attacks from one animal. He supported Varrie s call for pets to be inoculated.Buccaneers owner Sally Price said: A guest from East London, a girl, and one of our security guards received a nip and are both on treatment. Leigh-Ann Pretorius said she and husband Danie were watching a movie at 8pm when there was a commotion. A skinny dog was in our yard. It bit our Labrador, Zulu. We chased it out. Zulu had to be put down by the state vet yesterday.Emslie said an emergency message came through on WhatsApp about people being attacked on their way to the beach. He said he had seen the dog near the shop. The shopkeeper came out. I shouted that the dog could have rabies. His dog came out from behind him and it [the rabid dog] attacked. He bolted into the shop and closed the door. I waited for a safe shot and fortunately it moved and I was able to destroy it. mikel@dispatch.co.za