BCM has for years failed to help the hawkers selling sheep skulls in Fort Jackson despite a budget being set aside. This was revealed by economic development MEC Sakhumzi Somyo on the second day of the Taking Parliament and Legislature to the People joint sitting at the Abbotsford Christian Centre in East London yesterday.Somyo did not detail how much had been set aside for what he described as a project to protect the informal traders. He surprised everyone present when he accused BCM of neglecting the hawkers. We have been engaging [with BCM] for a while to develop them. But BCM is holding us back because the money has been set aside for a very long time now. I am saying this on purpose. That project s money might just fly away or disappear. Let us please work together to ensure that the project of protecting those people happens, he said to applause.The popular hawkers work in the open in all kinds of weather. There are no ablution facilities nearby.BCM economic development and agencies committee chairman Mawethu Marata told the Daily Dispatch that the informal traders would receive the support they need. We will make sure we follow up the MEC s announcement today, with the officials and with the department. At the moment I cannot tell you the amount [set aside] and why the project was not implemented. But from today, I am assuring you that development in Fort Jackson is done and those people are safely placed and their marketing run properly. BCM will make it a point that that project really does take place. That is a commitment, he said.Earlier in the day, residents complained of poor service delivery, potholes that had become bath holes , a lack of support for cooperatives, a need for speed humps in some places, neglected parks and high levels of unemployment.Responding to the complaints, Somyo and his public works and roads counterpart, Thandiswa Marawu, promised that the issues would be attended to.Marawu told the packed venue that residents should assist government with monitoring and ensuring that officials, like the extended public works programme workers, who are always accused of slacking, did their jobs.Later in the day MPs visited B Brite Wave Products and Cleaning Services in NU15 in Mdantsane and Magebheza Furniture Manufacturer in Fort Jackson. Both small businesses received government support.B Brite owner Portia Mncono said to start her business she had received R2-million from Somyo s department.However, she complained to MPs of minimal support from BCM, saying city bosses had not visited her factory since it was launched.Marata promised that the metro would assist Mncono where it could within the 30 days that MPs set.NCOP s economic development portfolio committee chairman, Mntomuhle Khawula, said they were happy with the progress in the factories as they had created much-needed jobs.NCOP will be back in East London in March to monitor commitments made this week by BCM and others. ndamasem@dispatch.co.za