By KHULEKANI MAGUBANE and ZISANDA NKONKOBEElderly social grant beneficiaries could be in line to receive state-funded funeral benefits if proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act go ahead. Currently funeral deductions amount to millions and the department wants to offer such benefits at a much lower rate.Deputy director-general Brenton van Vrede said: If we look at the amount of deductions on Sassa [South African Social Security Agency] for funeral benefits, we see roughly R2-billion. The deductions allow up to 10% for funeral benefits. We can probably do that for the beneficiaries at a cost of about R50 or R35. The proposed amendments include increasing the child support grant for orphans and children in child-headed households, as well as setting up an appeal system that would see a grant beneficiary or applicant dealing directly with the independent tribunal when in disagreement with a Sassa grant application decision or review.Another clause would provide for the setting up of an Inspectorate for Social Assistance, which would facilitate appeals against any decision or transaction by Sassa.Speaking at a press briefing in Johannesburg yesterday, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini cabinet had reviewed and approved the proposed amendments for release and public comment. The amendments also seek to establish a supplementary benefits fund, which would enable the government to provide funeral benefits to the elderly, and a savings vehicle for caregivers of children with the aim of linking social grants to developmental activities, said Dlamini.The Black Sash welcomed the new developments as an advance for human rights.National advocacy manager Elroy Paulus said they would broadly commend the amendment if the funeral benefit was of no cost to the beneficiaries. We haven t seen the regulations yet but as a preliminary comment we commend the state for finding the resources to offer these benefits to grant beneficiaries and we not only hope this is of no cost to grant beneficiaries but that it s a value-for-money scheme too, he said.Speaking at the same briefing, Social Development director-general Thokozani Magwaza said the inspectorate office was ready to look into appeals against transactions and decisions by Sassa.Earlier this year, the Daily Dispatch reported that the government had amended the Social Assistance Act to prohibit any deductions from Sassa debit cards except for funeral policies, which were not to exceed 10% of the value of the individual social grant.This was done to end unauthorised and unlawful deductions.At the time, Sassa spokesman Kgomoco Diseko said countless beneficiaries had complained to Sassa about funeral policy deductions coming off their grants without their knowledge. We set up [an] investigative body with three directors. We are finalising the establishment. It is being piloted within the scope of social security, said Magwaza.Van Vrede said when the department started the appeals tribunal into Sassa decisions, it had 3000 new appeals per month. This had now fallen to less than 500. zisandan@dispatch.co.za