Exciting running action is on the horizon for the Eastern Cape as the ever popular Heroes Marathon fast approaches. The run will take place on December 4 and this will be the 17th edition of the event, which draws runners from across the continent.Participants will once again tackle the 42km course from Mthatha to Qunu.There are also 10km and 5km fun runs which both start and end in Qunu.Every year the event has a distinct international flavour with participants coming from as far as Malawi, Mozambique, Kenya, Namibia, Ethiopia, Lesotho, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to participate.They are pitched against some of South Africa s top running talent, who also descend on the province. We always have an extremely competitive field and with the country s top athletes taking part as well as some of the continent s best, it is a truly international race, said event organiser Gogo Manqoyi.The race has grown from just 20 runners in the inaugural event in 1999 to over 1500 entrants last year. People are really excited for the race. I have been receiving calls from so many people who want to take part and I believe we are in for a great event, said Manqoyi. We have the backing of all the federations who are helping us and making sure we host another successful event. This year we are expecting around 2000 runners to take part across the three races. Last year s winners Ntsindiso Mphakathi from Port St Johns on the men s front and Ethiopian Selam Abere in the women s run will be back to defend their titles.Organisers said the year s prize money had been reduced due to cost-cutting, but the province would still sponsor the event to the tune of R1.2-million. The whole government is on a tight budget, so there has been a lot of cost-cutting across the board and this has therefore affected this year s sponsorship allocation to the race, said Eastern Cape sport, recreation, arts and culture MEC Pemmy Majodina at the launch in East London on Wednesday. So instead of last year s payout of R90000 for the first man and woman in the 42.2km, together with Athletics Transkei, we took a painful decision to adjust it down to R50000. lEntry forms are available from Total Sports and Studio 88 in East London and Mthatha, Mthatha Health Club and all sport and recreation district offices.For more information visit www.heroesmarathon.co.za.