Participants enjoyed the 2016 Daily Dispatch Cycle Tour and Mountain Bike Challenge at the weekend despite horrible conditions threatening the events. Tribal s Cillian Ryan took part in the race and was impressed with how things went.His Tribal team also took part in the race weekend with a number of top performances from their riders. It was an awesome race. The Tribal team were very happy with our results. The pace was kept very high by the guys up front, but in the conditions we were delighted that everybody finished well, said Ryan. From my point of view it was fantastic that there was a race held in difficult conditions. It made for exciting racing that hadn t been really seen in East London before, and from Tribal s point of view we were very happy to see how our athletes do under different circumstances. I think that it is a testament to the East London cycling fraternity that so many turned out in the conditions that they were for what was a fantastic event. Tribal athlete Cindy Schwulst put in a top performance to register her best finish in the Dispatch main event by coming second in the women s division, making it two podiums in a row after she came third last year. Cindy had an extremely good race. She cycled with a really nice group and she just put her head down and worked, said Ryan. We are also extremely proud of Madison Mann for her win on the mountain bike series. Hundreds of brave cyclists shook off the terrible weather conditions to take part in Sunday s Cycle tour race, this the day after a host of intrepid mountain bikers took on similarly challenging conditions to compete in the Mountain Bike Challenge.East London born and bred cycling star, Jevandre Pauls, was in attendance on the day, although not competing as he continues his rehabilitation from his horrific injury last year. It was a great event despite the rain. It was a good ride and a good race. I loved the new route. It looks more technical, with more climbs, so it seems a lot more fun, said Pauls. It was really good that the event went ahead despite the conditions because people still turned up and wanted to take part, so to hold the race in those challenging conditions was impressive, he added. In all I really enjoyed the day and it was awesome to see everyone out there taking part in the race. In an exciting race BestMed-NMMU cyclist Bradley Gueveris claimed the main race win, while SA cycling star Anriette Schoeman, competing for the Africa Silks Bestmed team, claimed her fifth straight Dispatch cycle title on the women s front. Clinton Gravett and Jonas [Schomburg] put on a good show early in the race and kudos to Brad Gueveris for taking the win in the end. I have known him for ages and I rode with his brother, so seeing Brad race like that was great, said Pauls. I will definitely be taking part in next year s Dispatch race and I look forward to a good battle with Brad for the title. 