Eastern Cape consumers will get a chance to snap up bargains as retailers across the province slash prices for Black Friday . The concept, originally from the US, has been adopted by South African retailers for the past three years and takes place tomorrow, the first Friday after November 25.Participating retail stores offer discounts of up to 80%.Border-Kei Chamber of Business director Les Holbrook said the concept was rapidly growing in South Africa, allowing many consumers to snap up bargains. This is the one time consumers actually buy things they would not necessarily buy because all those expensive branded takkies your kids have been nagging you about are available at low prices. Holbrook said Black Friday was also an opportunity for retailers to clear old stock and invite consumers into their store to showcase what they had to offer. So many retailers have taken part in Black Friday and for consumers there s a growing expectation that all retailers ought to be part of it, he said.Toys-R-Us store manager Neliswa Thutshani said they would be offering discounts of up to 80% for Black Friday. Last year it was crazy. Before 8am people were already flocking outside the store and within an hour we were out of stock. This year we have doubled our stock and filled our storeroom to capacity in preparation, but I worry that it won t be enough. Coricraft manager Maria Calaca said they were also ready for the retail bonanza. It s amazing how the concept started off as a fad, but suddenly people are psyched and so many people have been asking about it. Edgars credit manager Busisiwe Yeko said they were offering a 30% discount off normal and sale items for the day. Our shelves are packed and we are ready. Pick n Pay Mdantsane branch manager Sibongile Hlabiso said more than 20 items could be expected at very low prices. Before we used to restrict customers to four items per person but we have since discovered it doesn t really make a difference, so no restrictions this year. Hemingways shopper Lynette Booyens was excited about getting a good deal. I have my eye on Checkers. Times are tough and food is expensive, and they seem to have a lot to offer. However, Gonubie resident Shannon Human said she wasn t holding her breath. Malls are ridiculously congested and sites crash. I might try my luck online. Otherwise I ll stay far away from the malls, she said. 