Pupils from Nkangeleko Primary School were treated to new school shoes yesterday by the Mayibuye Transport Corporation. The school, close to the government transport entity s offices in Reeston, East London, received 100 pairs of Bata Toughees school shoes, the same number of pair of socks and snack parcels for all the children.MTC CEO Ntombizine Madyibi said it was the first of many initiatives by the corporation throughout communities they serviced. Charity begins at home and since this school is right next to our depot, this is where we want to make a difference by alleviating financial strain to parents by meeting them half way by buying school shoes and socks. We also want to bridge the gap between the community and the corporation and we are reaching out to support the impoverished in the community. Soon we will be reaching out to other communities too because we want to form partnerships with the communities which we serve. Madyibi said the corporation had adopted a new image and was steadfast in increasing visibility among communities.MTC Logistics manager Zonke Nojiwa said she was moved when she came to enquire who the needy children, wearing worn out shoes at the school, were. Initially we had intended on delivering 20 pairs, but we came here and we saw how bad the situation was for so many of them. We couldn t turn a blind eye, so we pushed the number to 100 at least and we will also take the names of others who may be in need, in case we can help them in the future. After interacting with some of the children, I decided to adopt two children that I can bring lunch for on a daily basis, just to give them something special, apart from the school s nutrition programme, because the teachers have told me that their situation back home is very bad. Nojiwa said she had also pledged to buy groceries for the two children s families every month.School principal Nceba Ngcawuzele said the school was thankful. Many kids drop out of school because they feel inferior without a proper school uniform. Today Mayibuye restored dignity and hope to children who may have been in despair. mbalit@dispatch.co.za