A man working at an East London food store was arrested yesterday morning for allegedly stabbing a junior staff member with a knife at work last week. The 37-year-old man, who cannot be named until he has appeared in court, was arrested after an injured Xolile Chali from Mdantsane opened a criminal case against him on Friday at the Cambridge police station.Chali alleged he was stabbed in the arm by the man using an okapi knife on Thursday at Fruit&amp;Veg City in Vincent.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch this week, Chali said it was not the first time the man had attacked him at work while claiming to be playing . This is the third incident in this year alone. The other time, he slapped me so hard that my nose bled. On Thursday, he complained that I was working slow after I had asked to be excused from work in the morning because I had to be in court, Chali said. I told him I had already done most of the repackaging work and the stock was inside the store but he kept on shouting at me. I carried on working, but the next thing I heard him opening the knife. He stabbed me and there was blood everywhere. The store owner said [the man] should take me to hospital and when we arrived there, he lied and said I was cut by an object while I was working. He left me there and said he would come back but never did. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said: Police are investigating a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm following a stabbing incident inside the store at Vincent .He said the suspect was charged and released on a warning. He will appear before the East London Magistrate s Court today, Mbi said.An emotional Chali said he wanted justice to take its course, claiming he had endured abuse and discrimination from the man for years now. He doesn t treat other white people like this. Sometimes he would offer other black workers money to beat me up and threatens to fire me. I have two children that I support with the money I get there and it pains me that this man hates me so much for reasons I don t know, Chali told the Dispatch.Contacted for comment yesterday, the man denied stabbing Chali and instead said they were playing . We were playing and everybody knows that, but it is just a pity that no one is coming forward now. Vincent Fruit&amp;Veg manager Louis Birkholtz said no fight had taken place between the two. This was a small accident. We have taken disciplinary action against the accused. He is still working in the store pending the outcome of the disciplinary hearing. mamelag@dispatch.co.za