Even the poorest of university students will have to find a way to pay back the money for their tertiary education, or risk getting nailed by the taxman. This is one of the key recommendations put forward by the Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training.The commission s interim report, dated November 2, was released by President Jacob Zuma yesterday, just moments before he was quizzed on the #FeesMustFall protests during a Q&amp;A session in parliament.The commission, established in June amid ongoing and often violent protest action, was tasked with exploring calls for free education and alternate sources of funding for tertiary education.The final report is expected to be completed in June 2017.Despite acknowledging that too many deserving candidates were excluded for financial reasons, the commission said students who received state funding should not expect a free ride. Because higher education and training produces substantial longterm benefits for both the state and a successful student, persons who enjoy fee-free higher education should be treated as loan recipients, the report said.A reasonable obligation to repay in full or in part would arise when a certain level of income was earned. An important influence in favour of the obligation to repay was the perceived need to render the funding process self-sustaining as fully and as quickly as possible. The report slated the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) for being ineffective at collecting debts from graduated students, and said it should hand this responsibility over.However, the commission also found calls for free education should go beyond fees, factoring in transport, accommodation, learning materials and living expenses.It also called on the state to find substantially more money to fund higher education.The state currently spends about R60-billion a year on higher education, but the commission says they need to find at least double this amount.During the question session, Zuma pledged his support for the principle that no student should be denied access to higher education and training but provided no clue on how this could be financed. Government is committed to ensure affordable higher education for all and to support poor and working class students to access higher education and training, he said. Government supports that university fees should be regulated and made available to all. No student should be denied access on the basis that their families are not able to afford fees. As government we want all children from poor families to study at universities and TVET colleges. Professor C T Msimang (IFP) asked the president: With reference to the registration of university students in 2017 first, has the government reached consensus with students on whether there must be no tuition fees or that there shall be no increases in tuition fees? Second, what is the government s position and response to the demand that there must be no tuition fees that is, fees must fall? Zuma replied that after wide consultation including with elected student leaders the decision was that for all students at universities and TVET colleges from families with an income of up to R600 000 there would be no fee increase. This includes the poor and the so-called missing middle who are students from households who have an annual income of between R120 000 and R600 000. This follows the announcement of the Minister of Higher Education and Training [Blade Nzimande] on the August 19 that the university fee increase for the 2017 academic year should be capped at 8%. No institution has announced a fee increment of more than 8%. The government will carry a fee increase through a gap funding grant on behalf of all poor working class and missing middle families he said.