Two groups of cyclists will be pedaling long and hard to raise funds for health causes before Christmas. One group of 20 riders left Port Elizabeth yesterday and are due in East London tomorrow.They are riding 300km over three days to raise funds for St Bernard s Hospice.The hospice cares for patients with life-threatening illnesses such as motor neuron disease, TB, HIV-Aids and cancer. The hospice receives state funds and needs R5-million a year to operate.St Bernard s Hospice Cycle Challenge is in its eighth year and still growing. Cyclists are accompanied by support marshals, medics and traffic officials.First-time rider Callie Fourie said: Six years ago, my mom was diagnosed with cancer. She conquered it and has been clean for four years. My kids have a grandmother now, all because my mom fought hard enough to survive, so I m doing this cycle for her. Organiser Marchel Brown described the camaraderie among the cyclists as incredibly unique . Each cyclist is here for a reason. Either they have lost someone in the fight against a life-threatening illness, or they are helping someone in their fight or even celebrating their triumph in winning their fight. Each person on their bicycle is here fighting for a cause, and they are united by it, Brown said.The peloton or group of cyclists is expected to arrive at The Esplanade at 3pm tomorrow.They hope to raise R150000.In the second ride, a feisty group calling themselves Grandads Army will set off on December 6 on a gruelling relay ride from East London to Stellenbosch.The Rob Burton Memorial Ride honours cyclist Burton, who died in a collision with a truck in 2013.Last year, the group raised almost a quarter of a million rand for burns surgical equipment for paediatric patients at Frere and Cecilia Makiwane hospitals.This year they want to top that by raising R500000.This year, the group is honouring Grandads Army member Arthur Salzwedel, who died in a cycling accident earlier this year.The ride is organised and coordinated by the Eyabantwana For the Children Trust. Riders and support teams cover all their own costs, which means that all proceeds go fully and directly to meeting the pressing medical needs of child surgical patients.East London doctor and member of Grandads Army Dr Colin Lazarus said: We have a steep fundraising hill to climb, but we are confident that East Londoners, and the many people along the way who were so supportive last year, will again rally behind this great cause. Yesterday, the East London Health Resource Centre hosted the media launch for the ride. siyab@dispatch.co.za