The man who became Walter Sisulu University s student president despite not being a registered student is defiant he says he will assume his responsibility as SRC president. Luyanda Chiliza, an ANC Youth League member, contested the SRC elections although he was not a student at the university.As president, Chiliza became entitled to free accommodation on campus, a laptop and a cellphone but has not yet been given the laptop and cellphone.He also has a say over a budget of more than R5.2-million in SRC funding of which he and his executive have already spent a quarter of a million on a party.Yesterday, a defiant Chiliza told the Daily Dispatch he had returned to campus to assume his position as SRC president. I am back on campus I am currently preparing to go to the SRC office to sign all the things that need my signature, said Chiliza.Asked if he understood that he was no longer president of the SRC Chiliza answered: I have not received any communication from the university. I am here to perform my duties. When talk of him not being a registered student surfaced, Chiliza fled and cleaned out his dorm room, several students said.The ANCYL s national office has distanced itself from the electoral fraud.The league s national spokesman, Mlondolozi Mkhize, said the ANCYL took a resolution that the youth league should not contest SRC elections but instead support the ANC-aligned South African Student Congress (Sasco). What that comrade did in Unitra is really none of our concern. We have always been clear that the youth league can exist as a student formation but it cannot and should not contest elections, said Mkhize.The ANCYL Thobile Bam branch, of which Chiliza is a member, said it condemned his actions. We are against fraud [and] corruption and we are adamantly against this new bizarre behaviour bestowed by this comrade, branch chairman Zuko Mpika said.Mpika further explained how the organisation had been misled by Chiliza. Chiliza introduced himself in the ANCYL Thobile Bam branch in 2015 as a WSU prospective student who was pursuing being admitted in the faculty of humanities, he said.University spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said the university had received reports from the WSU ANCYL that Chiliza left campus when he realised his plan was unravelling. WSU is a public institution and can be freely accessed by any person, including Mr Chiliza. For now, he has not been barred from entering WSU, said Tukwayo. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za