The substantively unfair dismissal of former Candy Tops confectionery plant manager Phil de Jager, ostensibly for speaking to the Saturday Dispatch, has cost Lodestone Confectionery R778 096. CCMA commissioner Jo-ann Coetzee ordered that the Johannesburg corporate must compensate De Jager with an eight-month salary payout. Coetzee delivered her ruling on November 3.De Jager became one of scores of employees who lost their jobs when former Lodestone CEO Nick Dennis closed down the East London plant earlier this year.In his evidence, De Jager said Candy Tops employed 270 people and up to 80 temporary workers.Dennis, represented by his human resources executive Thabisa Moleshe, claimed De Jager breached a management directive by talking to the media about the fight to prevent the eventual shutdown and loss of jobs, dubbed by the company as part of a restructuring consultation process .Commissioner Coetzee also found that De Jager s dismissal was procedurally unfair, and dwelled on the biased behaviour of attorney Leandi Langeveld, of Job Law, who chaired De Jager s disciplinary hearing. The chairperson [Langeveld] admitted she coerced the applicant [De Jager] into pleading guilty. The chairperson overstepped her role. She literally assisted the employer to tender its case, reminded the employer to present certain evidence, and showed more leniency towards the employer and its witnesses. She said Langeveld did not permit the applicant [De Jager] to cross-examine the employer s witnesses .She also found no evidence to justify Lodestone s claim that De Jager breached a rule apparently announced at a meeting on January 14 by Moleshe and now-resigned director Johan van Zyl. There is absolutely no record of the meeting . . . the employer did not call a single participant of the alleged meeting to corroborate that this meeting actually took place. Coetzee said Moleshe had also testified that the issue of the media was not part of the employer s contemplation during the meeting of January 14. No policy governing contact with the media existed, she found.In fact, Moleshe had conceded that De Jager s published comment, that the wholesale confectionery sector is struggling , was true.The company had tried to claim that this comment was proof that De Jager had disseminated incorrect information to the mediaBut the commissioner found that De Jager had no malice in mind when he spoke to the media and had acted in the best interests of the company by trying to prevent incorrect information about the company or Nick Dennis reaching the public and immediately explained himself to Dennis after giving the interview.