It will be a bitter start to the festive season for some, as more than 1000 department of health employees around the province will receive reduced November salaries. Not only will their salaries be cut to what they were in April this year, they will have to pay back the overpay in a period of three months.Health superintendent-general Dr Thobile Mbengashe last month sent a circular saying 948 data capturers, 209 assistance directors and 65 deputy directors in the province, whose salaries were increased in error in April, would have to be cut again.In the circular, Mbengashe told department staff that the directive came from the Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA). The directive from DPSA is that the department [of health] must reverse the salary upgrades and reverse as well as recoup the payments made in error to the individuals whose salary upgrades have been disapproved, part of Mbengashe s letter reads. The head office will provide a directive to recover the salaries paid to the affected workers and, together with the workers, arrange deductions from salaries to repay the debt in terms of section 38 of the Public Service Act, he added.Department employees, who asked that their identities be kept anonymous for fear of victimisation, are irate saying the department had been unfair in their approach. [To get] our salaries increased in April there were negotiations and even a strike. Our union negotiated for months; now the department is not taking our livelihoods into account and want to deduct R3200 from each person per month for three months, he said.Another disgruntled employee said: We have financial obligations that we need to meet and the department is being arrogant by simply imposing this on us without discussion. When we were fighting for the increases, Nehawu was involved in the negotiations, he added.Provincial health spokesman Siyanda Manana yesterday confirmed the circular. The department has instructed that the reversal be effected with immediate effect. The department is complying with the order from DPSA, he said.Nehawu provincial secretary Miki Jaceni said they were unhappy with the department s decision. We have written to [Mbengashe] to withdraw that circular. We understand that there was a demand from DPSA and not from his office. Our view is that [Mbengashe s] office is empowered enough to take an independent decision, Jaceni said. Mbengashe must call the unions and we will discuss the issue. Failing which, we will follow the correct channels to defend our members, Jaceni said siyab@ dispatch.co.za