East London bodybuilders Thembelani Dlodlo and Bulelani Jola raised the South African flag high when they finished in the top eight at the World Fitness Federation Championships held in Dublin, Ireland on Sunday. The Mdantsane-born duo were among more than 300 competitors from 67 countries who attended the global event.Their trip, which was extended by an additional two days to allow the pair to explore and tour Ireland, was funded by individual sponsors who committed to help the dedicated sportsmen.Since their plight was published in the Daily Dispatch last month other sponsors have also come forward offering help to the pair who were battling to raise fundsto attend the event.Dlodlo scooped a silver medal and a trophy when he finished in second place in the Extreme Body division, while Jola came seventh in the Super Body division.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch from their hotel in Ireland, the pair said they were surprised to have made such an impression on their first attempt in the competition. It was a surprise for us to have come up tops among the top 10 because there were many big guys from Germany, Spain and Egypt who we thought would scoop all the awards. But I am glad that our hard work has also been recognised, said Dlodlo.Jola said it had been an amazing experience so far. We gained a lot of experience and there is a lot we will be taking home with us. This was something new to us and we were both in the lineups with over 20 athletes in our respective divisions. Things are done differently here compared to shows we are used to. We discovered that we were up against bigger guys in our lineups, making it harder, as my division was a combination of four divisions and so was Terra s, but we fought hard and did what we were here to do, said Jola. Obviously it was harder than the other shows we have done in the past but the love and support we received from the Irish people was out of this world. Dlodlo and Jola said it was surreal for them to have competed on the international stage thanks to sponsors who believed in their potential and capabilities. We have been humbled by everything we have received from people who saw us off and contributed to our clothing, diet, accommodation and other expenses, said Dlodlo. Also prayers from our families and loved ones have been unbelievable and we have felt so blessed. Thank you to everyone for believing in us and this was for our hometown Mdantsane and every kid from eKasi who doesn t believe dreams come true. Dlodlo has been invited to compete in Brazil next year where he will qualify for his professional card. mbalit@dispatch.co.za