Consumers need to brace themselves for yet another potato price hike. Agricultural economist Karabo Takadi said prices were expected to increase until mid-November, with further increases expected in December. The drought has been blamed, with Takadi saying the dry climate left the market with insufficient supply to meet demand. Early season rains are still pending and dam levels are low, Takadi said. Consequently, the lack of sufficient water for irrigation may impact negatively on yields. Although forecasts for rainfall are very promising, it still needs to play out as predicted. Potato plantings in the eastern Free State need rain. Due to the uncertainty on the future outlook for rain, some producers in the Highveld region limited their exposure to potato production by planting less. Fruit and Veg City manager Louis Birkholtz said despite a slight price reduction seen over the last two weeks, potato prices tended to dip then rise towards the year as demand increased. In general, what happens is that the prices tend to increase because of availability, with the highest prices over the December period, then come January to February those prices begin normalising again, Birkholtz said. This is a trend I have picked up over the last few years I ve been in this business, with the biggest factor right now being the drought.&#8221;&#8220;There are other slight vegetable increases in the market too, but I would say the drought has affected potatoes more than any other produce right now.&#8221;In May, the Saturday Dispatch reported that potato prices had reached a record high, almost doubling in price compared with the same time last year.The average price for 10kg of washed potatoes cost around R100 or more at most stores at that time.A quick price check at three different upermarkets revealed three different prices of R89.99, R69.99 with the cheapest price being R67.99 currently with those prices expected to rise.Sanan s owner Brett Pope said three factors affected prices supply, demand and climate.He said, in his experience, potato prices generally increased from around December 16, at the start of the festive season. The demand for potatoes is usually highest in December when people are on holiday, but the prices are usually also affected by supply, which right now is dependant on the drought, he explained. The predictions in the agricultural sector say there will be a shortage in supply come December because of the drought but we can&#8217;t say that for sure because that could change by then. Another issue which could affect prices is the demand, whether or not the consumer is willing to pay the prices. Pope said banana prices had also been affected by the drought, with Takadi saying consumers could expect some relief in the prices of onions, carrots and tomatoes as the prices steadily decreased.Onions have decreased from around R40/kg to around R35/kg.Carrot prices had increased to around R4/kg but have now declined to an average of R2.50/kg.Takadi said: Tomato prices increased to a record R15/kg. In the near term it is expected that prices will decline as the new season harvesting of tomatoes will lead to an increase in volumes. zisandan@dispatch.coza