Vehicles parked on the street in some of East London s leafy suburbs have been targeted by vandals who went on a spree of shattering windscreens and windows with bricks and golf clubs. The vehicles were parked in streets in Nahoon, Bonnie Doon and surrounds.Jason McDowell said he was woken by a noise outside his Nahoon home in Kennington Road at about 2.30am yesterday. The Red Alert guys were already there because my neighbour s girlfriend s car had had its side mirror broken off and the windscreen, two passenger windows and back light had been smashed. Various posts on Facebook crime sites said there had been up to seven such attacks on cars in Nahoon in the early hours of yesterday morning.Brett Harvey of Red Alert said his officers responded to two.Police have confirmed the incidents, saying four cases of malicious damage to property in Nahoon, Bonnie Doon, Stirling and Bunkers Hill had been opened at the Cambridge police station since November 4. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said it was too early to tell what had motivated the vandalism.Kirstie Leigh Voogt, 22, was visiting her boyfriend s house in Cecil Lloyd Street, Stirling, when she heard a noise at 2am yesterday morning that sounded like gunshots. She saw two vehicles speed off leaving her Honda Jazz Gabby with smashed windows and windscreen. She said neighbours had seen a BMW X5 and a black Bantam bakkie pull up outside the house and four men smash her car with golf clubs.Fred Clark, 24, said his vehicle was parked outside his girlfriend s house in Sheerness Road, Bonnie Doon on Saturday night, when neighbours rang the doorbell at 1.30am to inform him that his Chevrolet Sonic had been vandalised. It was very upsetting. My windscreen was smashed and my back passenger door had been dented. The brick they used was lying on the ground. B&amp;B owner Sue Rainer took a similar hit a week before when her Daihatsu Terios was pelted with half paver bricks in the early hours of Saturday, October 29. They smashed the windscreen and two passenger windows and dented the backdoor. There were four half paver bricks lying around and one was inside the car. Broubart Security owner Bulla Wood said they would intensify evening patrols. barbarah@dispatch.co.za