A Johannesburg company that allegedly benefited from an irregular tender has been awarded another multimillion-rand contract. Azande Consulting, owned by Doreen Makhaye, was initially hired to cater for Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini s Ministerial Imbizos in the Eastern Cape in 2013.The Imbizos, which cost R4.8-million, form part of a Hawks investigation after it was found the tender was awarded irregularly by South African Social Security Agency (Sassa).The Daily Dispatch can further reveal that Azande Consulting is set to benefit from another events tender this time to the value of R80-million.A letter of accreditation, signed by acting Sassa CEO Raphaahle Ramokgopa on June 23, advises Makhaye her company has been listed on the agency s database for Project Mikondzo for three years.Azande is required to render event management services as and when required .Project Mikondzo, also known as Mikondzo Event Management, is a Sassa initiative spearheaded by Dlamini as part of her outreach programmes across the country.Despite Hawks Eastern Cape spokeswoman Anelisa Feni denying the unit was investigating anything to do with Sassa or Azande, three sources in Sassa confirmed the investigation.In addition, when contacted for comment regarding the investigation, Sassa s national spokesman Kgomotso Diseko replied: With regards to the Hawks case, we would like the legal process to proceed without undue hindrance. It is alleged that the R4.8-million for the 2013 Imbizos was irregularly spent for two events, for which Azande reportedly benefited.Azande supplied Sassa with:lCatering for 2400 people at R120 a head;lCatering for 450 VIPs at R245 a head;lThe supply of 6000 500ml still bottles of water at R16.50 each;lCatering for 50 VVIPs at R205 a head; andlTea, coffee, scones and muffins for 3000 at R35 a head.However, Sassa s Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC) found that prior approval by ex CEO Virginia Petersen or BAC was not granted before the services were rendered, rendering them irregular expenses.This led to two of the most senior Sassa officials in the Eastern Cape being suspended for their role in signing off and approving the payments.A Sassa manager, who confirmed to being questioned by Hawks investigators, said: The Hawks are investigating this after Sassa s adjudication committee found that the payment to Azande and other companies was irregular spending. Another source said millions were looted from the Eastern Cape. Many managers found themselves on the wrong side of the law because they wanted to please their national managers instead of listening to their consciences and sticking to public finance management rules. Azande is to benefit from another round of tenders while they are being investigated. Why is this being allowed to happen? Another Sassa source accused the Hawks of being captured and lying that there was no investigation. It s surprising for them to say that they are not investigating any case with us you can ask anyone with Sassa including service providers, said the source.Makhaye refused to comment, saying she had an agreement with Sassa not to speak about the matter. Speak to Sassa about this. I am not going to comment, she said.Diseko confirmed that two senior managers were suspended at Sassa and one ultimately took early retirement. We can confirm that two employees are on precautionary suspension with one charged with contravening the Treasury Regulations and Sassa procurement policy, said Diseko. bonganif@dispatch.co.za