Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani allegedly threw a microphone at African National Congress (ANC) spokesman Gift Ngqondi during a radio debate on KQFM on Monday night. The two politicians were part of a panel discussing the municipality s decision to block account holders from buying more electricity until their accounts have been paid up.Ngqondi alleged that when the debate heated up Bobani threw a microphone at him and shoved his finger in his face. He just threw a microphone at me and pushed his finger in my face. I decided to remain calm because as the ANC we are viewed as violent but a deputy mayor can t behave like that Ngqondi said.Ngqondi said he would open a criminal case on Tuesday morning. He did that in full view of the panel. They were shocked by his behaviour he said.Bobani rubbished the claims saying it was a publicity stunt orchestrated by Ngqondi. That is not true. Go look at the studio microphone and see if it is broken. He just wants publicity maybe Gift does not have enough Facebook followers. He must go and open a case. I am waiting. Bobani said the debate was peaceful. He just wants publicity. Why did he announce this on Facebook before even opening a criminal case? Bobani said.But two other councillors who took part in the debate confirmed Ngqondi s version of events.Economic Freedom Fighters councillor Yoliswa Yako said Bobani threw a microphone at Ngqondi. We were debating the electricity cuts and the deputy mayor kept on shouting. He was condescending and did not listen to anyone. He then pushed the microphone forcefully at the ANC guy. It was shocking If Gift was not calm I don t know what would have happened. United Front councillor Mkhuseli Mtsila said: There was drama there. We were debating the electricity cuts and at some point things turned violent. The deputy mayor pushed the microphone forcefully at Gift and pushed his finger in his face. It was very unpleasant to watch. A public representative behaving like that? He was there representing the metro. Attempts to reach KQFM presenter Percy Lamani were unsuccessful. TMG Digital/The Herald