A political storm has erupted in Buffalo City Municipality (BCM) after the municipality decided to splash out R150 000 to accommodate 40 councillors and traditional leaders attending a training session. This was because they live 60km outside of East London.The Democratic Alliance( DA) in BCM said the city s expenditure for the recent four-day SA Local Government Association ( Salga) training event held in EL from September 5-9, as a wasteful expenditure. The party argues the municipality could have spent far less had it opted to transport the councillors.DA s Sue Bentley said 40 councillors from King William s Town and other outer areas of BCM were surprised when they arrived for the second day, Monday, September 5, and were told by officials they should go home and get clothes and toiletries because they were spending the next three nights in guesthouses.Bentley said although the training was essential for councillors to gain understanding of the legislation governing local government, the party was worried about the amount spent during the training. Part of the salary package for councillors is a travel allowance. Even if BCM wanted to ensure councillor attendance from those areas, it would have been far more cost-effective to arrange daily taxi transport for the affected councillors, said Bentley.The municipality said the R153 000 was spent not only on the accommodation, also for the transportation of the councillors. The Daily Dispatch has seen the accommodation voucher amounting to R150 000 from Hamba Nathi travel agency in Berea.It states that this was the cost for the accommodation of 40 councillors.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said the municipality provided accommodation to councillors and traditional leaders who travelled more than 500km from the venue and that was provided for in the S&amp;T (subsistence and travel allowance) BCM policy. The councillors who were provided with accommodation were 40 and came from outskirt areas such as Chalumna, King William s Town and so on, said Cindi.Chalumna, is 35km from EL while King William s Town is only 52km away from the city on a freeway.According to the voucher, each councillor cost the municipality R1 250 for the accommodation and they were all booked at the Niche Bed &amp; Breakfast in Larkspur Place, Vincent Heights.Dispatch called Hamba Nathi Travel agency but a woman who took the call refused to comment saying: We are not at liberty to discuss such matters with the media. She refused to give her name and did not pick up calls again.Adding to the controversy, Niche B&amp;B could not accommodate all the councillors and it subcontracted with other B&amp;Bs including Ubuntu B&amp;B in Canute Road, Amalinda. Ubuntu accommodated 11 councillors and its rates were R350 per person per night.Niche B&amp;B could not be reached for comment on the two cell numbers on their large signboard at the entrance.Bentley said the DA s BCM caucus was appalled at the abuse of taxpayers money. Even though our own councillors were also accommodated we have since taken a decision to avoid being a part of such recklessness. We have resolved that when things are in the metro we should not accept accommodation but instead commute to the venue, said Bentley. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za