The family of a 64-year-old Mdantsane woman, whose body was discovered on Monday morning lying next to exposed electric wires, believe she was murdered. This after the family found her dressed in clothes that did not belong to her. Nompumelelo Mtati left her Mdantsane home last week for Nontyatyambo clinic after suffering epileptic fits.After being treated, she was reportedly told to sleep in the waiting room as it was too late to walk home. The following morning, when the family sent someone to fetch her, the family was told Mtati had left a few minutes earlier.Her family reported her missing on Saturday evening, when she could not be located.A massive search involving police and community members ensued on Sunday but to no avail.The deceased s sister, Ntombizanele Mtati, said believes her sister was murdered and her body dumped near Nkandla squatter camp. This, she based on the fact that Mtati s body had no visible scars following electrocution and the fact that she was dressed in clothes that did not belong to her. I know what a body of an electrocuted person looks like, the body turns blue and severe burn marks are visible, but my sister s body was unharmed no scratches, no scars nothing. Ntombizanele, who was electrocuted by exposed wires from an illegal connection in October 2013, showed the Dispatch visible scars from the incident.Her left foot only has three toes on it, after doctors had to amputate them. Mpumie would never walk on that road after what had happened to me, she knew how I nearly lost my life in that area, she said.The deceased s brother, Vuzumzi Manko, 48, said the way her body was lying next to the exposed wires on the road was suspicious. She was not lying on the wires but was [next to them] in a position resembling someone who was carefully placed. When I tried to pick her up, her body was too stiff. Nephew Zamani Mtati said his aunt, whose body was clothed in a denim pants, flip flops and a scarf, never owned such items. My aunt had never worn pants in her life, she hated pants, she left in an ambulance wearing a dress, who dressed her in those pants? The family said they were awaiting results of a postmortem, which they said would be released on Friday. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku could not confirm whether the results would be available on Friday or not.Mzuku said an inquest has been opened following the incident. Her body was discovered on Monday morning by members of the public who called the police. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za