Clarendon matric pupil Kelsey Savage knows how to tie 34 different knots, build a 7m gumpole tower with no scaffolding or nails and braai a chocolate cake in an orange peel, thanks to her seven years as a scout. Savage, 17, will receive the ultimate scouting accolade next week when she is presented with her Springbok colours. Be prepared really is my motto, said the Cambridge West teenager, who joined the 1st Cambridge troop with her brother and sister when she was 10 years old. We joined because my grandfather was a troop master in Cape Town and my father was a scout and I remember the stories they used to tell us. When she was 13, she attended a patrol leader course that motivated her to work towards the ultimate scouting accolade the Springbok badge. I am passionate about nature and enjoy planning hikes and training patrols. I especially like forests, so the Gwiligwili trail in the Amathole mountains is my favourite, said Savage, who is the assistant troop leader at 1st Cambridge.She wears the badges she has earned for mastering skills such as pioneering, survival, sewing, cooking, microcomputers and design on her sleeves with pride but her biggest challenges were the gruelling steps she had to take to qualify as a Springbok.These included running a two-night camp for two patrols with no adult supervision, constructing a 7m tower held together by rope and then involving her school in knitting blankets towards the 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela initiative. But the hardest one was a hike in the mountainous Groendal Wilderness area near Uitenhage, in which we hiked 40km in three days with heights of 700m. When I heard just before the start of my matric exams that I had been accepted as a Springbok and all my hard work had paid off, I was ecstatic, she said.Having successfully designed the 1st Cambridge centenary badge this year, Savage will study graphic design in East London next year. But I will never stop being a scout, even if I move to different cities. Achieving this [Springbok colours] and walking out would not be morally correct. Anyone interested in joining a new sea scouts (ages 11 to 18) and cubs (ages 8 to 11) troop that will open in Gonubie next year, can e-mail their details to gonubiescouts@ gmail.com. barbarah@ dispatch.co.za