A decision by Buffalo City Metro to close East London s popular hang-out spot Ebuhlanti for almost a month has received mixed reactions. In an advertisement published on Friday, acting city manager Nceba Ncunyana stated that Ebuhlanti, also known as Marina Glen, would be temporarily closed from yesterday to December 9 pending minor rehabilitation work.While some city residents welcomed the move saying the revamp was long overdue, the 50-odd families who make a living from braaiing meat at Ebuhlanti felt the timing was bad .Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, a group of woman braaiers some who have been operating at the facility for more than 20 years said they would be hit in the pocket by the closure.Pamela Kupiso said a BCM official had told them of the closure yesterday. This is very bad for us as we are very busy during these days. I have been working here since 2009 and I know that August to January is our busiest time. We were told that some of us would have to work at the park opposite Ebuhlanti and others near the Garden Court hotel, she said. There are no facilities for us there no water, no lights, no toilets. How are we expected to run a business under such conditions? We don t even know if our clients will want to hang out at such places. Kupiso said they were even more frustrated after learning that once the facility was re-opened, only those using BCM-owned braai stands would be allowed to operate.Although the advert stated the area would be closed from yesterday, when the Dispatch visited the facility it was still open to the public.Ncunyana listed interim alternative areas to be used during the closure period as Water World (near the race track), Mauritius (the open area opposite Ebuhlanti) and the open space bordered by Buffalo Park Drive, John Bailey and the cemetery near the Garden Court hotel.However, East London police have warned residents to be extra careful if they hang out around Water World as the surrounding area is notorious for serious and violent crimes.The women braaiers expressed unhappiness at moving to the alternative sites.Their committee chairwoman Nonkqubela Gobinduku said: We are now being moved to a place where there are ladies who sell their bodies for a living. We don t know how we will operate with them in the same place. She said many of East London s big companies held end-of-year functions at Ebuhlanti. We have stokvel ladies who come here and boost our businesses and we manage to put food on the table for our children and buy them clothes for Christmas Day. We are all for the idea to revamp and improve this place, but the timing is bad. This would have benefited everyone if they had closed and done the work around May or June because in winter less people are keen on coming to the beach, Gobinduku said.The work to be undertaken at Ebuhlanti will include unblocking and clearing stormwater drains, erecting additional floodlights, fixing existing ablution facilities, shaping and re-gravelling the roadway, adding more bins and adding more taps for running water.Mayoral spokesman Ayabulela Ngoqo said R800000 had been budgeted for the work.Asked why BCM had chosen to conduct the work now, he said: We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience. We have targeted the festive season and are preparing for it as there are many events that will happen during this time. We want to combat crime as statistics have shown us there is a high crime rate Ebuhlanti. BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said additional temporary cleaning staff would be employed from December 1, as well as marshals. The department of tourism will also place staff to monitor tourist safety and deal with tourist enquiries at Eastern Beach and other beaches during the festive season, he said. mamelag@dispatch.co.za