Two police officers were held at gunpoint, disarmed and cuffed in a robbery of a police station. Eastern Cape police confirmed yesterday all 198 police stations across the province had been placed on high alert after the robbery at Balfour police station.The station is 34km from Fort Beaufort and 9km from Katberg.The incident took place on Monday in the early hours.The robbers fled with two Z88 pistols and an R5 assault rifle.Police management were alerted when a patrolling officer returned to find his two colleagues handcuffed with their official cuffs.Provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga issued an urgent directive to all police stations in case there was a repeat incident.Spokeswoman Brigadier Marinda Mills said yesterday that five men had duped the officers on duty into believing they were crime victims.Police believe the men colluded with three women who had entered the police station earlier. It was 1am. Three women first entered the police station and requested assistance with a minor case, Mills said. They were asked to wait until a patrol vehicle returned. The three women decided not to wait and left the station. A few minutes later, five males who pretended to be robbery victims came to report a case. While the two officers on duty were trying to assist them, the men suddenly took out firearms and overpowered them. They handcuffed the officers and took off with two pistols and one R5 rifle. While one pistol was taken from one of the police officers, the other pistol and R5 rifle were taken from the police station s safe.Mills said after the incident the police took in two teenage girls aged 16 and 17 and five men aged between 22 and 28 for questioning. No charges were filed.The firearms have not yet been recovered, Mills said. The two officers involved were taken for counselling and psychological help, Mills said.She said the armed robbery docket was transferred to members of the Organised Crime Unit for further handling. Eastern Cape provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga has issued a high alert to all SAPS police stations and members to be vigilant and very cautious when on duty, especially during nightshifts, Mills said. Shocking is how chairman of the portfolio committee on police in the Eastern Cape legislature Michael Peter described the incident. It is not the first time that criminals get to police stations and rob officers, but this appears to target certain stations which are mostly in remote areas, where it takes time for backup teams to arrive, Peter said. zwangam@dispatch.co.za