With barely a year in the acting business, East London actress Sive Mabuya is already starring along some of the biggest names in the industry. Mabuya has landed the role of AJ on the SABC 3 drama series High Rollers.The series features the likes of Justin Strydom, Antony Coleman, Rolanda Marais, Fezile Mpela, Xolile Tshabalala, Carmel Fisher, Carine Rous and Vilje Maritz. I am just a young, new actress but already I have the opportunity to work with such people. This shows what God can do for you when you believe in his plan for your life, she said.The Duncan Village actress received her big break in February last year when she was one of five winners of the MAQaMovie competition for amateur actors, sponsored by the MAQ washing powder brand.This gave her the opportunity to feature in the film Skorokoro, directed by Darrell Roodt.Speaking with the Daily Dispatch yesterday, the 23-year-old said she knew that one day she would be on television but had not expected it to happen soon. It s been amazing acting on High Rollers. Every day when I go to work, I pinch myself. It s a dream come true. Most of actors on the show are veterans and I get to work with them, she said.Last December, Mabuya landed a role in the M-Net original film The Ring. The film starred Kenneth Nkosi, Mac Leshomo, Sana Mchunu, Cedric Fourie and Ntando Mncube. In every role that I take, I give it my all because I want to make an impression. Kenneth Nkosi played my father in The Ring and he is this big actor and I knew I had to make a good impression, so my work could speak for me even when I am not there, she said.Currently pursuing a degree in public relations management, Mabuya said she would love to do another degree in acting. Even though it has not been easy working and studying, I am planning on finishing and then doing something in acting. I want to learn more about the industry I am in and become the best that I can be in my craft. The former East London Secondary School pupil said people should never take rejection as a death sentence. The worst a person can say to you is no and you just have to keep moving. I don t know how many times I ve auditioned this year and have been told I am not what they were looking for. She said she was grateful to her parents, who have been supporting her since deciding to follow her calling. No one can survive in this industry without faith. My parents believed in me and I believe in God. One must be confident in themselves and God in order to make it, she said.lCatch High Rollers every weekday at 7.30pm on SABC 3. poliswap@dispatch.co.za