A former Mthatha politician was found dead this week in an East London morgue almost a month after he went missing. The body of KSD ANC ex-councillor Solomzi Peters, 44, was identified by close friends on Tuesday at the Woodbrook state mortuary in West Bank.There was a stab wound in the neck.East London police believe Peters got into trouble while walking alone in Buffalo Street.It is suspected he was accosted and robbed of his cellphone and money before being stabbed to death.His body was found on the street at 1am on October 27.He was treated as an unknown deceased until Tuesday.Peters lived with his sister in Ngangelizwe.His body was fetched by family friend Lungelo Mpongwana yesterday.Mpongwana said Peters was last seen alive on October 26 travelling to East London to visit his close friend and political ally, Buffalo City Metro (BCM) portfolio head of infrastructure and engineering Ncedo Kumbaca.Mpongwana said: I was supposed to have travelled with him but due to other commitments he travelled alone. I called him at about 9pm that evening to find out how the visit went but his phone was on voicemail. His phone has been on voicemail ever since. As days passed without the return of their loved one, friends and family started searching for Peters at police stations, hospitals and mortuaries, Mpongwana said.Their search led them to the East London police station, where they were told to go and check among the unclaimed corpses at the mortuary. We found him in Woodbrook, where we positively identified him, Mpongwana said.Kumbaca told the Dispatch he was shattered by the news. I was just speaking with my wife to say we have to travel to Mthatha to meet with his family and assist with the funeral arrangements. Solly was like a blood brother to me. He knew everything about me and I knew everything about him. He led my political campaign for chairman of the ANC Youth League in 2014. He was there during my tough time in politics. I am shattered by his death, Kumbaca said.Mhlontlo local municipality ward 18 councillor Mlamleli Mpeleli said Peters served as a member of the ANC for more than 20 years and some of his policy ideas had been implemented nationally. He was behind the [campaign for] 40% youth proportional representative in government where young people were elected in position of power whether in council, provincial department and national department, Mpeleli said. He was a leader in the youth league with the current mayor of Mhlontlo local municipality, Nompumelelo Dwili, as his secretary then. He also worked closely with expelled ANC Youth League president Julius Malema. He was very intelligent in politics, especially when there was a conference. He also played an important role in the politics of the region of OR Tambo region, Mpeleli said. zwangam@dispatch.co.za