When Mdantsane-born actor Unathi Platyi played boxing in one of South Africa s biggest townships, little did he know he would use those skills for a TV role years on. Platyi plays the role of Mbazo, a boxer on the SABC2 telenovela, Keeping Score.For the role, Platyi said he had to channel inspiration from his days as a boxing fan.The telenovela is about an All-African Sports Academy run by Mmamosa, played by former Generations actor, Sonia Mbele. The academy is dedicated to training and uplifting young athletes.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday, Platyi said: It was never an option not to like boxing while growing up because that is all I saw. Playing the role of Mbazo who is a boxer was not hard because I have played (boxing) before and I love it. When he left home in 2013, little did he know that he would get his television debut on SABC3 s Isidingo.The 27-year-old actor has been featured in a number of shows ever since.Other appearances include: Heist, Dreamworld and Scandal. It has not been easy but I now feel my hard work is starting to pay off. I haven t been in the industry for long but I have been getting roles, he said.The former Solomon Mahlangu High School pupil left college to pursue a career in acting. I was studying Mechatronics Systems at Buffalo City College but I decided to drop out on my third year. I knew that it was not what I wanted to do for a living and I took a leap of faith, he said.With the help of a local businessman, Platyi was able to move and look for acting jobs in Johannesburg. I did not have a background in acting but I knew this is what I want to do. It was hard for me in the beginning but I pushed myself, he said.Platyi has also had opportunities to be featured on adverts as well.He said his dreams have helped him get where he is today. One has to believe and follow their dream no matter what the cost. People will always try to discourage you because they were scared to pursue their dreams. I believed in my dream even when I was still at Buffalo City College and that is why I decided to quit before I could hate myself for doing something that I wasn t passionate about, he said.Platyi also added that young people growing in townships or rural areas should not allow their background to determine where they will end up in the future. I am testament that one can be whatever they want to be. You must be willing to work hard and start from nothing, he said.Catch Platyi every Monday and Tuesday on Keeping Score on SABC2 and on e.tv s Heist every Tuesdays. poliswap@dispatch.co.za