Fallen soldiers were this weekend remembered across the world to mark the 98th year after the First World War, which ended on November 11 1918. In East London, a marching band paraded down Oxford Street while a Selborne College band rendered hymns, including the national anthem.Buffalo City Metro (BCM) law enforcement officers closed off an upper section of the busy Oxford Street as more than 100 people, including relatives of the fallen soldiers, war veterans and members of the public attended the event.The event, organised by the metro, was to salute not only South Africans who fought in the two world wars, but also those who fought in the struggle for democracy.Relatives of the deceased wore decorative medals to honour and acknowledge the courage shown by those who died in the wars. Two planes surprised all in attendance as they flew low over the memorial event.Acting executive mayor Ncedo Kumbaca, who led the metro councillors, said this was historic for them, as the members of the struggle were also recognised. For the first time their contribution has been recognised. The MK veterans and Apla veterans played a role in our struggle, they are heroes. We are also proud in that the generations who died in Sharpeville and in Soweto in 1976 were also recognised, said Kumbaca.The South African National Defence Force, the Memorable Order of Tin Hats (Moths) in East London and the Buffalo City Volunteer Rifles were among those who attended the annual event.Also among those in attendance was Mandisi Ndandani, whose grandfather O Connor Ndandani died in 1983, took part in First World War. Ndandani said he never missed any of these memorial events. If my grandfather was still alive he would have attended the event today. These events mean a lot to me and my relatives as we have one of ours who participated in one of these significant wars, said Ndandani.At the time of his death, O Connor Ndandani was a police officer in the former Transkei Republic. He was one of many South Africans who took part in the war.Ndandani said the event was a dedication and honour not only to his grandfather, but to those who fought the world over. bonganif@dispatch.co.za