The UDM in Mbhashe municipality wants the public protector to probe abuse of state resources in yesterday s by-election. UDM councillor Nkosinathi Ndlodaka said his party would approach new national protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, as well as the electoral commission (IEC), after they saw two ANC councillors using a municipal vehicle to campaign in the area.The by-election was in the municipality s ward 17 in Elliotdale.It was contested by the ANC s Pumzile Makeleni, UDM s Phumlani Msengeni and EFF candidate Zamile Timbani.It was one of six by-elections held across the province to replace councillors who had either died or resigned since the nation-wide local government elections three months ago.All six of those wards two in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro and one each in Raymond Mhlaba, Port St Johns, Mbizana and Mbhashe municipalities were won by the ANC on August3.Ndlodaka said the municipal vehicle was driven by Mbhashe mayor Samkelo Janda s personal assistant, with two ANC councillors, Noncekelelo Mlandu and Nolumanyano Ngomthi, also on board.Ndlodaka claims Janda was abusing his office as he had campaigned in the ward for four days, holding alleged stakeholders meetings, distributing municipal seedlings and asking people to vote for the ANC candidate.Ndlodaka said the vehicle was eventually confiscated and removed by municipal traffic cops after he and another UDM councillor called to complain about its abuse. After noting such abuse, which results in the playing field not being level, we decided to call municipal traffic authorities and complain about the use of this vehicle for ANC work. The traffic cops arrived in the ward where the vehicle was and wanted keys from the mayor s PA, who was driving the two councillors. Apparently she refused to hand over the car keys and instead preferred to drive the vehicle herself while she was closely escorted by the traffic officials. The two councillors, who had arrived in the ward using the vehicle, were left behind while traffic cops and the PA left with the municipal vehicle, said Ndlodaka.Contacted for comment, Mlandu yesterday confirmed being in a municipal vehicle driven by the mayor s PA. Yes we were in the municipal vehicle because we were in the area with the mayor on municipal business and not the work of the ANC, said Mlandu.But Ngomthi denied being in the vehicle. That is not true. We never took any municipal vehicle. Even when we travelled between the voting districts in the ward, we walked and did not take any municipal vehicle, she said.Janda could not be reached for comment.The IEC s provincial spokeswoman, Pearl Ngoza, said late yesterday that so far the by-elections were proceeding smoothly. asandan@dispatch.co.za