East London dance star Chace Collett was crowned Miss Teen Pageant South Africa 2017 at a glamorous event at Pretoria s Batter Boys venue on Saturday night. Collett, 18, who matriculated from Merrifield College last year, has become a familiar figure in the national and local dance scene.She won 13 overall championship awards at the World Championships of the Performing Arts earlier this year. Everything was so beautiful and professional at the pageant finals, said Collett, who lives with her parents advocate Sally Collett and businessman Baden Collett in Winterstrand and teaches stretch and body contouring classes at Dance Addiction dance studio.Her star outfit was a form-fitting rose-gold gown crafted by East London seamstress Toy Oosthuizen and embellished by her dance partner Ashley Behrens who hand-glued 1500 glittering Swarowski crystals to the dress but Collett and 16 fellow finalists also took to the ramp in casual wear and swimwear before she received the winning sash. My heart was pounding and when my name was called it was such an amazing feeling. It was so unexpected because I ve never competed in a pageant before. I teared up but held back from crying because I didn t want to smudge my makeup. I knew there would be photographs later. Collett was up against 16 finalists and will now represent the country in the Miss Teen Continents pageant in Las Vegas, in which about 35 countries will participate in mid-2017.She said she would seek coaching in public speaking and work on her model s walk ahead of the international pageant. I m very shy and apparently there are a lot of interviews in the international event. Besides the all-expenses paid trip to Las Vegas, Collett also bagged beauty products and jewellery and had to borrow a suitcase to transport them back home.Competition founder Ellen Roux said Collett stood out completely the whole night .Roux said Collett also won the best dressed award at the pageant because her dress was so understated. Her rose-pink dress was plain but glowing and did not overwhelm her. Roux said Collett stood a good chance to win the international leg of the competition in Las Vegas next June. She is a humble person and has what it takes to represent our country. barbarah@dispatch.co.za