About 40 small business owners in Mthatha, including food-sellers, are seething as the municipality drags its heels over a blocked sewer that has been gushing faecal slush for almost two weeks. Not only are they forced to put up with the stench and brave the health hazard but the situation is robbing them of their livelihoods as customers stay away.But OR Tambo district municipality yesterday blamed the problem on road construction work nearby, which it said had affected the sewer network.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch at the weekend, an angry Solly Mbiko, who has sold herbal medicines from his container in Elliot Street since 2010, said they were scared of an outbreak of disease. We told them [district municipality] about the problem but nothing has been done to fix it. This water is dirty. Our chests burn from inhaling the stinking air. Some people are now complaining of itchiness on their skins. The affected traders are among about 100 business owners who run their enterprises from containers along Elliot Street. Some of them sell cooked meals while others run car-repair businesses, and others specialise in fixing damaged electronic equipment, including television sets.Mbiko and a few others run herbal shops, selling an assortment of traditional medicines.They were moved to the area by King Sabata Dalindyebo local municipality in a bid to free up space in congested parts of the town.The traders refer to the area where they operate in Elliot Street as the Container Park Small Business Centre.The centre s secretary, Nomakula Sutu told the Daily Dispatch at the weekend that the sewage from the blocked sewer ran in front of their containers, making it difficult for customers to access them.She said as a result many of their clients had become so disgruntled they were now threatening to boycott the businesses. We are losing clients here. This town has a problem of sewage spills. Nolubabalo Fihla, who sells prepared meals, said the situation became worse on hot days as the sewage then attracted swarms of flies. She said even inside her container, her customers had to swat away flies while trying to enjoy their meals. People are not happy coming to eat here anymore because of this. I am losing out on a lot of money I could be making. I was the first to go and tell the district municipality about this problem but it falls on deaf ears, she said.Her container is less than 50m from the blocked sewer.OR Tambo district municipal spokesman Ayongezwa Lungisa said yesterday the matter was receiving attention.He said they were trying to acquire a special machine to unblock the sewer. The team on standby is attending to the matter, he said. sikhon@dispatch.co.za