The Nelson Mandela Bay based Chippa United Football Club is set to receive R6-million from Buffalo City Metro after council last week approved a new partnership between the two. The six-game partnership came after BCM hosted a number of Chippa United games earlier this year, with the metro receiving exposure and giving local businesses a boost in turnover. The new R6-million deal comes despite the Buffalo Stadium recently failing to meet Premier Soccer League (PSL) standards.On Tuesday the Daily Dispatch reported that Chippa would not play at Buffalo City Stadium against Cape Town City this month as initially scheduled.The game was moved to the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth because the East London field was found to not be up to scratch.However, mayoral spokesman Ayabulela Ngoqo said the city set up a team comprising engineering officials to make sure PSL standards were met by the city going forward. We have a team that is dedicated to fixing all these problems experienced at Buffalo City Stadium and Sisa Dukashe Stadium. We have meetings every Tuesday with the PSL team where BCM intervenes on issues that need us. But most importantly what we are working towards is ensuring that we have a speedy recovery plan to all the problems that concern our sporting facilities, said Ngoqo.Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane was also found to not meet PSL standards recently ahead of the anticipated MultiChoice Diski Challenge (MDC) scheduled to take place from December 3 to 4.In his report, approved in council last week, acting city manager Nceba Ncunyana said Chippa wanted to play in BCM. It has become clear that more economic and social upliftment programmes have to be implemented [in the metro] and Chippa United s presence will achieve these objectives. This partnership will help more in branding exposure and marketing for BCM to bring about more balanced structure for local economic activities so as to see the metro s business sector very active, explained Ncunyana.He added that BCM also hoped to acquire international football matches. This partnership [between BCM and Chippa] will increase tourism focus on heritage sites and ultimately on most selected tourism products of the province. Ngoqo said the partnership would be renewed on an annual basis.BCM is also expected to receive money made from ticket sales as part of the new agreement.In a close-out report tabled before council in August, Chippa United founder Siviwe Chippa Mpengesi said R4-million injected by BCM for matches held between January and June paid for a bus that cost R82000, accommodation at R140000, salaries at R3-million, marketing costs of R150000 and snacks and dinner for the road at R16000 among other costs. mamelag@dispatch.co.za