AbaThembu leaders campaigning for King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo to be released from jail are intensifying calls to leaders of the feuding royal family factions to join their campaign. The #FreeOurKing campaign made the call following factions of the abaThembu royal family preferring different candidates as acting kings.As a result, the nation now has two acting kings the king s son Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo, 24, and the monarch s younger brother Prince Mthandeni Mankunku Dalindyebo, 47.Dalindyebo is serving a 12-year jail term for an assortment of cases including kidnapping, arson and defeating the ends of justice. He has been in prison since December.Contralesa in the Eastern Cape has applied to President Jacob Zuma for a presidential pardon. Dalindyebo filed for a review of his case in the Constitution Court in February this year, but this was denied.Those heading the #FreeOurKing campaign, including bishops, business people and a number of community leaders, expressed their dismay and disappointment over the succession fight, saying the royal family was making no moves to demand the king s release.The campaign leaders have marched to the Union Buildings and parliament in Cape Town to raise their concerns to both Zuma and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbethe over the incarceration of Dalindyebo. They hope he may be released early next year. In fact, it is the royal family itself which had strongly campaigned for the arrest, incarceration and dethronement of the king. We are not shocked that they are now rejoicing over his incarceration and do not want him to be released. They are now fighting over his throne. They are misleading and confusing the nation. To set the record straight, we are supporting no candidate for acting kingship. We only want the the king be released soon and to occupy his throne, said campaign leader in the Zwelibanzi Cultural Centre, Mdengentoga Liwana, who is based in western Thembuland.Liwani said they would be happy if Azenathi and Mankunku together lead the campaign for Dalindyebo s release instead of fighting over his throne. 