Opinions about how black people have weak handshakes compared with the vice-like grip of Westerners , have landed DA councillor Jan Smit in cultural hot water. Smit dropped these and other clangers on race, sex, and religion while delivering an educational training session on general rules of good conduct to the DA s Buffalo City Metro caucus two weeks ago.His presentation, which included the claim that black people speak in louder voices to each other, was shot down as out-of-touch and backward.Some DA councillors said his insights into behaviour, delivered as a slide in his presentation, were insensitive and demeaned black people.Smit s slide also claimed: Many orthodox Hindus, Jews and Muslims may choose not to shake hands with people of the other sex. His advice on gender was: In some cultures it is customary for a man to enter through a door before the lady [sic] in order to protect them form [sic] danger, while in other cultures, especially the western [sic], a lady must at all times be given the opportunity to enter of [sic] leave first. Smit s presentation was intended to create awareness and sensitivity towards other cultures.But councillors took exception and Smit was told to retract his views and rework them.BCM caucus leader Olwethu Ntame said the presentation was not offensive to her personally, but she did not rule out the possibility of it offending others. I was not offended by the presentation even though I vividly remember the contents. It was agreed upon during the meeting that Jan s presentation was outdated and that he should go back and update his information and continue with his part at the next training [workshop], said Ntame.The contentious slide comprised seven points of discussion covering greeting , eye contact , the handshake , your space , sitting , voice volume and leaving and entering a room .Under The handshake Smit said: Westerners generally offer strong had [sic] and shake the hands firmly while traditional African people leave their hands [sic] in your hand and shake hands less firmly. Under the heading Sitting Smit s slide stated: Westerners generally expect an invitation to sit while traditional African people, if in a junior position, will generally sit first as a sign of respect. Under Voice volume the slide claimed: Traditionally African people speak to each other in loud voices so as to indicate that there are no secrets between the two parties. The DA s BCM caucus has 13 white councillors, six black, three coloured and two Indian councillors.Smit confirmed he received feedback from the councillors and that some objected to the contents. Yes, I did the presentation and it was felt that the information was outdated and we have agreed that it would be reworked and presented at a later stage, said Smit.He said there was no particular sentence which was deemed to be incorrect. There were no hard words, there was no fight, it was just a plain request to rework the thing and I agreed and I am working on it, said Smit.Smit said: That [contacting the Dispatch] shouldn t have happened. It was malicious. Terence Fritz, who confirmed he attended the training workshop held two weeks ago, said: It was not racist. It was just outdated because the things said there are not what we do. The Daily Dispatch called a number of councillors regarding the presentation.BCM Councillor Zwelandile Mdinwa confirmed attending the training session but would not comment on Smit s presentation. Can I not comment on the proceedings of the meeting please? I am told that there are people above me that can comment. A source at the training session, who took pictures of the presentation, said: The lack of cultural sensitivity in the document and the way it demeans black Africans and excludes whites from being Africans is beyond the pale. The new councillors were shocked at how condescending the document was. Sources claimed some of the new councillors objected and councillor Smit recalled the document to try and hide it . simthandilef@dispatch.co.za