African Independent Congress (AIC) councillors yesterday saved the ANC in the Buffalo City Metro council when the council struggled to make a quorum to approve controversial sports funding worth R3.7-million. The ruling party, which was short of votes with a number of its councillors absent, was in for a surprise when DA councillors walked out of the special council meeting called to approve sports funding recommended by the newly elected special committee for sports funding.Soon after the party left the chambers in protest over the issue, EFF, PAC and UDM councillors followed, accusing the ANC of wanting to approve sponsorship from a report that had many loopholes.While other opposition parties reportedly lobbied for the two AIC councillors to leave with them, the councillors stayed and gave the ANC a much-needed boost as they did not object to the approval of the funding.The council made the needed quorum of 51 councillors on the dot. If one more councillor had walked, the quorum would not have been reached.Executive mayor Xola Pakati requested the council to approve a R3.7-million sponsorship for four boxing tournaments of R800000 each and R500000 for Border Rugby.The applications were brought before council after the special sports funding committee could not approve the amounts as they were above their limit of R400000 for each event.The committee had already approved funds for 24 sports events worth R5.5-million, all under the R400000 limit.DA councillor Geoffrey Walton questioned the legality of the funding process, saying there was information missing from the report. There is no evidence in the report of a due diligence process being followed in the proposed allocation of funds. The minutes of the sports committee meeting indicate there were concerns about proceeding with the allocation of funds as there was a need to elaborate on the sponsorship policy. He said the council minutes had stated that the establishment of the special committee was an interim measure while a policy is being developed .He said: There is no policy in place. What is clear from the draft minute establishing the special committee is that the procedures set out in part 5.3 of that report should be followed; this notwithstanding the stance of the DA at that meeting, stating that the procedures set out therein were incomplete, said Walton, adding that in the absence of the required information, it was considered that the council could not consider the matter further and the matter should be referred back.DA councillor Susan Bentley questioned the criteria used to allocate the funds and said it was irresponsible of BCM to fork out millions of rands for sponsorships instead of investing it in service delivery.However, Pakati was quick to say perhaps our definition of service delivery is different. Because as a sporting mecca it is within our rights to approve such funding. ANC councillor Mawethu Marata said the council had no option but to approve the funding .He was supported by ANC councillor Pumla Nazo Makatala, who said: We must trust this committee that they have looked at all these applications. As the ANC we must approve this submission. EFF councillor Phindiwe Kaba said the party rejected the approval of the funding.ANC councillors who remained in the chambers, cheered as the opposition councillors asked to be excused. I am informed officially that we make a quorum of 51 councillors. The report is approved, Mtsi concluded to more cheers. mamelag@dispatch.co.za&nbsp;