Buffalo City Metro motorists can breathe a sigh of relief as the metropolitan authority has declared war on potholes. Every pothole-riddled street and any roads showing signs of corrosion will be fixed, according to newly appointed infrastructure and engineering portfolio head councillor Ncedo Kumbaca.Work had already started yesterday in Amalinda s Rosedale Street in front of Crewe Primary School.Resident Nadene Odendaal was extremely excited to see the city was fixing potholes in her street. We are happy that finally our roads are being fixed. It has been a long time coming. We have been complaining since forever about our roads. So far it has cost me two tyres, said Odendaal.There are kilometres of BCM roads with potholes wider than 60cm while others are dangerously deep, and difficult for motorists to manoeuvre around them.This not only creates problems for motorists but the metro as well, as motorists whose tyres are burst by potholes claim thousands from the municipality.Kumbaca and his department have worked tirelessly over the past few weeks ensuring that all roads are patched, particularly the busy roads which are to be used during the festive season.He said residents can expect to have pothole-free roads within the next few weeks as the city starts to fill more than 2000 identified potholes within the city.The metro started its maintenance programme this week and is set to address among others, rural roads and potholes in all BCM suburbs.Kumbaca said the road fixing package would be unveiled as part of the first 100 days programme of executive mayor Xola Pakati. As BCM we are literally declaring war against potholes in our city. We have heard the cries of our people and we are promptly responding to that. Members are encouraged to inform us about potholes so that we can attend to them, said Kumbaca.Potholes in East London are a hugely contentious issue, with some residents even calling the situation a crisis .Another resident Gerhard Schreiber said it was a Christmas box for them to have their roads fixed. I am so excited that our roads are finally being fixed. I am happy with even the way they are carrying out the work they are neat and they are doing a proper job. We have seen contractors coming in with a wheelbarrow and a spade full of tar, but these ones are fully equipped. We are happy, said Schreiber.Some parts of Gonubie have also received a facelift, while others like Cornwall Crescent, where residents have tried to fill them with sand are still to be filled.The pothole project is scheduled to go right up into the month of June next year, with the last areas being Cambridge, Beacon Bay, Gonubie, the CBD, Scenery Park, Parkside, Park Ridge, Egoli, West Bank, Wilsonia and Cambridge West. We are committed to eradicating all the visible potholes in the metro and we are committed to servicing our roads for our people, said Kumbaca.Other road construction projects that the city is busy with include the total revamp of Fleet Street in the Quigney and Gullsway Street in Gonubie.A road linking Beacon Bay and Gonubie is also on the cards.The road will run through the fast-developing Quenera Drive area to Gonubie. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za