Eastern Cape conservationist Cathy Dreyer flew the South African flag high when she scooped a prestigious international conservation award at a lavish ceremony in the UK, where she rubbed shoulders with Prince William this week. Dreyer was awarded the top accolade for protecting endangered species, threatened habitats and promoting environmental education at the 2016 Tusk Conservation Awards at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London on Wednesday.The wildlife conservationist and anti-rhino poaching activist won the Tusk Award for Conservation in Africa at the annual event making her the first South African to receive the award.On its website, the Tusk Conservation Awards states that the prestigious accolade is given to those extraordinary people, whose work and lives might otherwise go unnoticed outside their fields .Dreyer s duties inclues rhino management which includes rhino monitoring, tracking and constantly keeping up to date with anti-poaching initiatives.The Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency (ECPTA) official, who arrived back home yesterday morning, said she was still overwhelmed with everything that had happened over the past two days. It is all still so surreal. I m honoured and humbled at the same time, Dreyer said. It s been a privilege to be working with a great team and to have won among so many other conservationists which I believe are doing extremely great work, is an absolute blessing, the rhino whisperer , as Dreyer is affectionately known, told Saturday Dispatch.Dreyer confessed she had always been passionate about black rhinos. I have grown to understand their nature and I respect their boundaries, which is probably why I have never been charged or intimidated by the black rhino, she explained.Dreyer reads out loud to the wild animals and sleeps outside so they can know her voice and smell her when she is around.ECPTA CEO Vuyani Dayimani said he was extremely proud of Dreyer s achievement. Cathy Dreyer is a remarkable force strategically placed at a significant reserve in the Eastern Cape. This conservation manager is responsible for protecting one of the world s most important and endangered black rhino populations. Her hard work, passion and dedication to protect these majestic beasts have recently caught the attention of the international community. We are extremely proud of her for having been nominated among three finalists for the Tusk Conservation Award, and even more excited that she won. The award recognises up-and-coming conservationists whose work demonstrates exceptional commitment to conservation and has made a significant impact to date, Dayimani explained.Dayimani said extensive work and experience within the conservation field developed her reputation for installing effective systems and marked her as an outstanding and committed conservationist. mbalit@dispatch.co.za