Intense lobbying has started in earnest across ANC branches in Amathole after the ruling party gave the region the go-ahead to prepare for an elective conference later this month. Regional secretary Teris Ntutu is likely to contest a third term, while his rivals want to field former businessman-turned-politician Ndoda Ntlikiti to replace him.Ntlikiti s line-up also wants Butterworth-based soccer referee Ace Ngcobo to become regional chairman against Liquor Board chairman Khanyile Maneli.Max Madlingozi branch secretary Ntombethemba Lawu, who also serves as deputy sub-regional chairwoman, said they had nominated Ntutu to serve a third term as secretary and Maneli to be the new regional chairman. We have agreed as a branch to lobby for the two. It s not a secret, said Lawu.The region, which covers areas such as Butterworth, Kei Mouth, Komga, Dutywa, Alice, Fort Beaufort and Ngqushwa villages, was due to elect its new leaders earlier this year, but the provincial executive committee (PEC) asked the region to shelve it until after the August 3 election.Soon thereafter, the PEC set aside December 16 for the branches across the region to hold their elective conferences.It is the Mbhashe and Mnquma sub-regions which have deciding power on who wins the conference as they are the biggest regions, with 32 and 31 of the 115 branches respectively.Ntutu confirmed yesterday that he has been approached by his Max Madlingozi branch. When I was elected into office, I was approached by both branch leaders and senior leaders, who felt strongly that I had the required qualities to lead this region. Once again I have been approached, as some people including my branch that I must continue with what I am doing in bringing stability to Amathole. So yes, I will depend on what the branches say. If they want me to contest, I will, said Ntutu.Ngcobo and Maneli are likely to contest a position left vacant when Sakhumzi Somyo was elected as deputy provincial secretary in June 2013.Troubled former Amathole mayor Nomasikizi Khonza has been the acting regional chairwoman until the party suspended her membership two weeks ago.Contacted for comment yesterday Ngcobo said: Anybody who comments on leadership preferences at this stage is out of order, as branches are yet to nominate leaders. I will only confirm my availability to contest any position once branch nominations commence and a branch nominates me, added Ngcobo.Ntutu said of the 120 branches which went for audits, 115 passed and are therefore eligible to hold branch general meetings (BGMs) starting from this week.It is at these meetings where ANC rank and file will discuss policy matters as well as nominate regional leaders.Ntlikiti said he would await for branch nomination processes. It will be premature to confirm availability or not at this stage, said Ntlikiti. We are still waiting for a roadmap to the conference so that we can convene BGMs, the structures which are tasked to deal with nomination processes within the ANC. 