When Benathi Dodosana woke up in hospital with two broken hips and a smashed femur after a car crash a year ago, she thought she would never walk again, but now she is determined to make it across the finish line at the Daily Dispatch Fun Run on Sunday. Komani resident Dodosana, 33, was on her way to work as a fashion store manager when the car she was in blew a tyre and rolled.After the jaws of life had to be used to help remove her from the wreckage, the badly injured mother-of-two regained consciousness at Frere Hospital. My left leg was paralysed. I was scared I would never walk again or be able to to fetch my boys from school, Dodosana said. I was crying all the time. They wanted to amputate my leg, but I refused. I still had hope. But when, after five months in traction, her leg broke again when she was being moved to a chair for the first time, that flicker of hope was almost extinguished. I wanted to be near home so I was transferred to Frontier Hospital and then was discharged but I had no wheelchair and my mom had to help.Dodosana s fortunes changed once the Road Accident Fund approved her claim and she was admitted to Life Rehab in East London a month ago. When I was admitted I could not do anything on my own but after a week of daily gym and aqua therapy and a caliper, I could walk with a walking frame. Therapy has also helped her damaged nerve to regenerate and on Saturday Dodosana was thrilled when she was able to move her left leg. I could not believe it. I can t wait to do the Daily Dispatch fun run because it will be the first time I will walk outside since my accident. Physiotherapist Carina Beukes said Dodosana will be one of a large group of Life Rehab past and present patients who will participate in the annual Daily Dispatch Fun Run at Orient Beach.lEntries for the Daily Dispatch 4km and 8km Fun Run which begin at 9am are available at Total Sports Vincent, Sportsmans Warehouse and the Dispatch s Beacon Bay and CBD offices.For more information, call (043)702-2090.