Eastern Cape Bees FC are the champions of the maiden Heroes Cup and in so doing, they achieved a record of 15 matches in an undefeated streak. The ABC Motsepe League side emerged 2-0 victors over Future Tigers in the competition s final.Bees had advanced to the final after walloping Mdantsane Mighty Bucks 4-1.Their cup glory marked the 15th match this season in all competition without defeat for the Bhisho-based side.And Bees head coach Chippa Njedu is a happy man.He is in fact happier because he fielded his B-team in the Heroes Cup competition.And he was amazed at Bees will to win. I just realised we actually have two equally capable teams within our squad who can beat any opponents any day, said Njedu. I was quite pleased with the display by these fringe players today; it only means we will get stronger going forward. We do not want to lose so we will work hard to maintain this record because should we lose once then the flood gates will open, he continued. In this cup I gave the chance to those players who had not got it in the league and I can safely say it was a conscious decision because I am impressed. So impressed was Njedu that he says none of his players will be released.Only those wanted by clubs in the higher divisions such as NFD and PSL will be given his blessings in the interest of the players progress.If anything, he may add a few recruits to tighten their grip on provincial football.Njedu explained the feeling: We are excited that things are going our way so far. It is good to go into the break at the back of winning a cup because it keeps players motivated and find reason to come back. This means we have high chances of coming back in the new year still in the same winning spirit which is good because most clubs lose out on the title race after the break. Going into the break, Njedu is happy about all aspects of play in his side.Defensively they are solid in that they conceded merely a single goal in this cup competition. This while they scored six of their own meaning their strike force is in potent mood.Heroes Cup runners-up Tigers boss Vukile Mlanjana was unfazed by the loss to the mighty Bees.He instead vowed to have cracked the blueprint of where Bees can be exposed. And we have a league meeting with them in January, mark my words they will not come out with three points, said Mlanjana. The cup game was a good opportunity for us to study them and that we did to our satisfaction. All five clubs that were part of the competition were showered with R10000 each while Bees walked away with a cup and gold medals.Tigers had to settle for silver. zingisam@dispatch.co.za