Nothing could have prepared Ayanda Ncwane and those close to her husband Sfiso for his death on Monday which has left the entire nation in a state of shock. Family spokesperson Sipho Makhabane told TshisaLIVE that Sfiso died on Monday morning after he was rushed to hospital on Sunday night. &#34;Your adversary, the devil, walks around like a roaring lion, seeking for whom he may devour&#34; 1 Peter 5:8&#8230;. How I wish couple could spend enough time praying and covering their marriages &amp; families with blood of Jesus, clothing their marriages with the full amour of God. Be careful young couples, the number one mission in the kingdom of darkness in destroying marriages &amp; happy homes. Rebuke the slightest thought of lust, RUN aways as far as possible from tempting situations. No amount of money , power, education, beauty can save you. YOU NEED THE BLOOD OF CHRIST. When your partner is spiritually weak , stand in the gab and fight for your families zithandwa. The calls I&#39;m getting lately about broken marriages breaks my heart and annoys me. That is why I&#39;m sharing this. Taking pictures together and acting happy is not enough. WOMEN!!! Take authority and power given to you to fight in prayer, fast, rebuke the spirits, stop sleeping, and allow the devil to enter into your territories( marriages).A photo posted by Ayanda Ncwane (@ayandancwane) on Dec 4, 2016 at 6:38am PSTMakhabane said Sfiso had kidney failure and had been complaining that he felt weak .Just hours before Sfiso s death was confirmed his wife Ayanda shared a heart-warming picture of the two of them together and encouraged other couples to celebrate their love for each other. How I wish couples could spend enough time praying and covering their marriages and families with the blood of Jesus clothing their marriages with the full armour of God. Be careful young couples the number-one mission in the kingdom of darkness in destroying marriages and happy homes she wrote.Ayanda said women should take control and not let the devil enter into your marriages . When your partner is spiritually weak stand in the gab and fight for your families zithandwa. The calls I m getting lately about broken marriages breaks my heart and annoys me. That is why I m sharing this she added.