A Nahoon family is angry and traumatised because nine months after their five bedroomed home suffered extensive fire damage when their BMW burst into flames in the garage, they are still living in rented accommodation. And, while they await their insurance claim to be settled, their home has been vandalised by thieves and squatters, causing further damage.The saga began on April 21 this year after home-owner Dennis Jose parked his wife s BMW X5 in his garage after its engine had been replaced at Autohaus Monti.She said when her husband parked the car, smoke started coming out of the bonnet and it burst into flames. My husband told me and our nine-year-old daughter Tashmeera to go to the bedroom at the other end of the house, said attorney Naomi Shivali Jose, who is a project manager for the Special Investigations Unit (SIU).She said she and her daughter were alarmed to hear explosions in the garage, and when the passage filled up with smoke they escaped through the back door and were helped over the wall by a neighbour, who also saved their dog Jojo.By the time the fire engine arrived 40 minutes later, the BMW and a Jeep parked in the same tunnel garage were burnt to a crisp.The fire also destroyed the deck, entertainment room and an en suite bedroom above the garages as well as a home gym on the ground floor.In the months since the fire, squatters have broken into the home and vandals have stripped it of fittings.When the Daily Dispatch walked through the beleaguered house yesterday, Dennis Jose pointed out where lights, plumbing and copper pipes had been ripped out and where wily thieves had smashed through the ceiling to gain entry. I always think of my wife and child. I thought they would be safe on the other side of the house. A detailed report conducted by BMW South Africa dated June 9 this year found that the cause of the fire was a fitment related issue during the engine exchange .But this did little to speed up the Jose s claim.Naomi said the offer from Absa Insurance Company finally came through in September, but was too low for them to consider. It was an awful experience and the fact that our insurers have still not settled (more than) eight months after the incident makes it more traumatic. My daughter and I are both in therapy now, said Naomi, who was diagnosed with post traumatic stress disorder.Last week, she took to social media, describing the trauma and frustration they had suffered.A few days ago, the Joses received another offer from Absa, but said this did not cover the damage subsequently caused by criminals.Their attorney, Simon Kirk, said that while the initial offer from Absa insurance was unfair , their second offer last week of R700000 was being considered as an interim offer. It has been rejected as a final offer because it does not address the interim damage. Loss adjuster Leon Hauptfleisch of assessors Cunningham and Lindsey, who were appointed by Absa, said the claim was in the process of being resolved.Responding to questions sent by the Dispatch, Absa spokesperson Candy Guvi said: Absa Insurance Company is currently engaging with its client to resolve this issue. Unfortunately we are unable to provide any further details until such a time as an agreement has been reached by both parties. Autohaus Monti had not responded to questions at the time of writing. barbarah@dispatch.co.za