A merry holiday atmosphere prevailed at the 37th Daily Dispatch Festive Fun Run yesterday morning, when many of the 1000 participants donned Santa hats, glittering baubles and quirky Alice bands for the 4km and 8km courses along the East London Esplanade. The Christmas theme extended to a spirit of giving, with lucky- draw give-aways of home appliances and television and sound systems to lucky entrants, while four Daily Dispatch local heroes shared in the bounty with R5000 donations to their charities. We decided to do something unique this year with the Christmas theme and are also giving back to our readers and children in need, said Daily Dispatch marketing manager Ryan Megaw, who fired the gun signaling the start of the cheery family event.The start and finish at the Orient pools was enlivened by three sparkling young Christmas elves who manned the popular social media frames for selfie takers.The fun run, which is sponsored by Jumbo clothing, had a very special meaning for Life Rehab patient Benathi Dodosana, whose leg and both hips were smashed in a car accident a year ago. I was determined to get up from my wheelchair and walk across the finish line and I did it, said Dodosana, whose son Ongeziwe, 10, watched his mother walk in the fresh air for the first time in a year. It was amazing, he said, throwing his arms around her.Also in a wheelchair was an upbeat Codi Smith, nine, who has spina bifida and whose grandparents Gordon and Rose Smith pushed him along the route.For the Taylor family, the fun run was an opportunity for mom Denise and teen daughters Katelyn, 19, and Jessica, 15, to have a quality chat. It was quite moving to see so many people in wheelchairs, because they don t usually get this opportunity, said Jessica.Dispensing well-earned hot dogs after the event, Life Rehab practice manager sister Desiree Cox said about 85 patients, former patients and their families got into the swing of the fun day.The facility s staff, including doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and occupational therapists also got a workout as they pushed patients along the 4km course. This is the fourth year we are taking part. It is a wonderful day because it caters for the disabled, said Cox.Mdantsane Athletic Club runner Sabelo Dunywa, 18, who won the 8km event, said although he had found the hills a little difficult , he loved the atmosphere. It was hot, but I told my coach I would win so this feels so good, said the teen, who has set his sights on becoming a pro runner.First woman across the 8km finish line Andrea Ranger, 34, said she felt lekker with her achievement. This run has a nice family vibe and it was nice to see people pushing wheelchairs. It s tough to run, let alone push a wheelchair! Winner of the 4km run, Lithobe Menzeleleli, 17, of Gonubie High School, said he was thrilled with his performance. I only started training for this two weeks ago because of exams, so this was a big surprise for me. Wearing a jaunty Christmas hat, Anathi Jongqo, who has cerebral palsy, celebrated her 18th birthday yesterday. Her wheelchair was pushed by devoted mom Zoleka Jongqo, who said the fun run had been a special outing for her daughter. She lies in bed all day, said Pat Goosen of Madiba Sunrise Cerebral Palsy Disabled Home. So for her mom to be able take her out is very special. The centre was one of the beneficiaries of R5000, as were the Philisa Centre, uThixo uLungile Ministries and Newstart Daycare. barbarah@dispatch.co.zal See more pictures on page 15