Raising awareness for the deaf was no walk in the park for Daily Dispatch senior sub-editor Tim Stones, who ran for 48 hours at a marathon held in Johannesburg recently. Stones ran for the Decibel Cochlear Campaign, an initiative of the Miss, Mrs &amp; Mr Deaf South Africa organisations, to help raise awareness and raise funds to support profoundly deaf two-and-a-half-year-old RW Venter.The Pretoria-based toddler is in need of a cochlear implant.Stones came first overall in this race, among five others who participated. One cannot do such a race without a quality, committed seconder, and I was most fortunate to have my dad there from the first evening of the race right through to the finish, Stones said. His intimate knowledge of my personality and running strategy helped him to ably assist me. Most especially when I suffered with several huge blisters and cramps. He&#8230;even joined me for a few laps around the circuit, talking me through some of the more difficult stretches. Stones said he had only found out about the marathon in late October, and had only nine weeks to prepare. The longest run I had done was the Two Oceans 56km a good few months ago. Besides that I did two Comrades Marathons, run in 2002 and 2003, but my longest run ever was a 100km race in Cape Town at the age of 20 in 1999. It [Johannesburg marathon] was an ambitious undertaking and I did what I could during the few weeks, averaging 100km a week, with peak weeks (three) of 120km. I became the first person from the Border to complete a 48-hour race, establishing the record, which is now 188.2km. I also became the first deaf person in the world to officially complete this event. I improved the previous 35-39 age group record for this particular event by 84km. For this year, 2016, my performance ranks me at the top for my age group throughout Africa for the 48-hour, and fourth best (in all age groups) in Africa 2016, and 15th best&#8230;alltime in Africa for individuals in my age group, said Stones.Stones said he researched the history of the race, the stats, and engaged with experienced campaigners in ultra-distance races, including Washie guru Johan van der Merwe, who mentored him for a few weeks. I arrived at the race with the goal of breaking the course record of 240.192km. After the first 24 hours I was on track to do so, completing 117km. I was completely physically and mentally shattered at the finish, but looking at little RW s smile and his own courageous spirit, it made it all worthwhile. God has given me a gift with running, and it is a privilege for me to be able to use it to encourage others, like RW as well as my own sons, to live their dreams and not allow circumstances to restrict their potential. mbalit@dispatch.co.zalRW needs about R350000 to R400000 for the implant. Anyone who would like to donate can contact Stones on 073-162-3852 or at timstones1@hotmail.com