More than 80 children from a rural school in Buffalo City Metro will have school shoes when they start the first term in 2017, thanks to the hard work of a group of East London women from Virtuous Jewels. The organisation, founded by suspended cooperative governance superintendent-general Bea Hackula, seeks to help underprivileged children with school furniture, stationery and school uniforms.Earlier this year the organisation adopted Noncedo Primary School in Ducats Location, and as part of their work they delivered furniture and stationery in September. Last week they organised a boat cruise on the Nahoon River to raise funds to buy shoes for children at the Ducats school.Noncedo Primary principal Daphne Sidzatane said prior to receiving the school furniture only seven of 65 pupils had chairs to sit on. Receiving new chairs had rejuvenated the kids enthusiasm for school.Virtuous Women, which has about 20 women members, visited the school prior to delivering the learner-support material.Hackula said the group had agreed to help alleviate financial strain on parents, who mostly rely on social grants. Since we started the organisation we have received a lot of support from other women who want to be part of the growing movement and make an impact in destitute children s lives. Over the past year we have developed a national footprint, but we want to ensure that this school we have adopted is in a good space, and all their needs are met, before we assist others. Hackula said members of the organisation and friends supported the boat cruise, aimed at raising funds to buy shoes for the 82 children registered at the farm school. Although the school consists of 409 children overall from grades R to 7, we aim to make an impact one grade at a time. We are authentic social entrepreneurs who are playing globally but are making an impact locally, because we are passionate about seeing a change in our communities. Group member Xolisa Fani said Hackula s initiative was in line with what she did at the department of social development. Because she is passionate about development, she is still instilling that in others by encouraging people to get involved and donating what they can to contribute to the cause. I am proud of being a Jewel. Nomfundo Burns-Ncamashe said she was also happy to be part of the initiative. When women are united and focused on a cause, they can do wonders. We want to make those wonders happen in our small communities. mbalit@dispatch.co.za