&nbsp;Infrastructure projects worth tens of millions of rands in the Eastern Cape have been abandoned, allegedly because the person in charge does not have an engineering qualification. Residents in Gqunu, Qumbu, have angrily denounced the failure to complete an important bridge as corruption saying it showed that money was just being dumped .But officials of the rural infrastructure development directorate in the department of rural development and land reform claimed the problem was not corruption but a lack of knowledge.The concerned officials questioned the academic qualifications of their director Nomathamsanqa Tam-Tam Gobozi, who does not have an engineering degree.She has a social science degree from the University of Fort Hare (UFH) and one engineering source said this meant she lacked the skill and technical know-how for many of the engineering projects they undertook.Gobozi told the Saturday Dispatch that she would not comment as the department was dealing with the enquiry, but a department spokeswoman said Gobozi had been hired on the basis of her managerial qualifications and experience.The department said suitably qualified engineers were supposed to take care of the technical aspects of projects, and not the director.Other department employees who have worked on a number of projects under her directorship, including the R130-million Inkosi Dalibhunga Nelson Mandela Legacy Bridge and paved road in Mvezo and R72-million Gqunu bridge, highlighted that:lThe Mvezo paved road originally supposed to extend from the N2 through Mvezo to Elliotdale, stopped at Mvezo Great Place;lThe Gqunu Bridge construction site in Qumbu was abandoned after two construction companies left the site amid a dispute, leaving the multimillion-rand project in jeopardy; andlA consultant working on Agri Parks projects had not been paid as Gobozi allegedly can t read or understand the technical drawings, plans and professional fees.With regards to the Gqunu Bridge, where the department has already spent more than R36-million, sources feel the matter could have been resolved if Gobozi had attended to the disputes raised by construction companies.The project includes the construction of the bridge and a paved 10km access road to Gqunu village in the Mhlontlo Local Municipality. Initially the project was for R58-million and there was an additional R14-million &#8230; taking the amount to more than R72-million. The department had already paid R36-million of the money, said the source. The project is now an eyesore, the bridge is not finished, the paving bricks are at risk of being stolen as they are scattered everywhere. If she had the skills, qualifications and experience, things would have been different, taxpayers money could have been saved. Department spokeswoman Linda Page confirmed that Gobozi had a social sciences degree. When the post was advertised, it required only a degree in development or management. The director post was a management level position which required managerial capabilities of the incumbent. However, a copy of the September 2011 advert for the position states that it requires an appropriate, recognised degree in the built environment engineering, town and regional planning, architecture, quantity surveying or development. We are not after her but after the system that allows unqualified people to lead professionals. It s frustrating, said another source.Page said all staff reporting to Gobozi were required to have built environment qualifications. It is important to note that all the projects you mention and other similar projects also have reputable consulting engineering firms overseeing them, she said.She said Gobozi s appointment had not had a negative impact on any of the projects.She further said Gobozi s technical staff, under her supervision, were responsible to conduct site supervision and discharge responsibilities linked to their technical expertise.A Dispatch team recently visited the construction site in Gqunu where a two-lane concrete bridge has been left unfinished.Vehicles travelling the 10km stretch of gravel road have to negotiate a partially paved road.Villagers said they had no idea why the project was abandoned. We had people who were employed here but the company working here just disappeared without a word. They destroyed our road and left that bridge like that, you can see they were just dumping money here, said Vuyani Kwelita, a motorist from Gqunu.Lalini Zandisile said their vehicles were getting damaged. This is what I call corruption. Why a project of this magnitude is left unfinished, with tools scattered everywhere? Our vehicles are constantly breaking down because of this, said Zandisile.Mvezo s Inkosi Dalibhunga Legacy Bridge and paved road project, worth R130-million, was supposed to run through to Elliotdale. The bridge stopped at Mvezo Great Place, creating an impression the money spent was for Mandla Mandela s homestead, said a source. It s in the public knowledge that politicians have said the road was to travel to Elliotdale but Gobozi failed to pursue that to help other villagers to benefit from the legacy project. bonganif@dispatch.co.za