Political differences allegedly led to hundreds of Tyutyu village families being deprived of water supplied by Buffalo City Metro (BCM) at the weekend. The families taps had run dry as a result of strike action at Amatola Water last week, resulting in BCM trucking water into the area.However, the families told the Daily Dispatch that they were denied water because they had not voted for the ANC during the recent elections.They claimed that water was only distributed to certain households belonging to ANC supporters and that they were sidelined because they had aligned themselves with independent candidate Mpumelelo Feni.Villagers spoken to yesterday claimed the water truck had ignored them since Friday.More than 15 villagers spoken to claimed the truck driver was travelling around the village with ANC members who dictated as to who must be provided with the water and who should not .During a Dispatch visit to the village yesterday, ANC members Vatiswa Mzomba and Anelisa Tapile were seen in the front seat of the water truck along with the driver.Mzomba, who threw insults at the Dispatch team, refused to comment when approached. I will not speak to you. I will only speak to Mamela from BCM who had called me and told me to direct this truck to where the water should be delivered. Asked who Mamela was, she said: I don t know, go ask around. ANC ward 35 councillor Siyabonga Skolo said he had asked Mzomba and Tapile to travel with the truck but denied they were not delivering to people who had voted for other parties. I am confident that everyone has received water. If there are people who have not, I will never condone that and will have to investigate the matter. A large group of residents were seen waiting outside their yards with buckets. They said elderly and sick people were struggling to cope with the situation.Many children did not report for school yesterday as there was no water for them to even drink, let alone wash.Feni reported the matter to BCM mayor Xola Pakati and council speaker Alfred Mtsi on Sunday. ANC people are gambling with people s lives here by depriving them of the basic need for them to survive, he said. People were told to go to Feni to ask for the water. They were told that water was organised by the ANC and that whoever did not vote for the party, was not entitled to receive a supply. This is abuse of human rights by those who think they are politically superior to others. Bhokani Natu, 71, said: Things like these are the reason the ANC has lost so much support in our area. DA member Nosiphiwo Roji said her bucket full of water was thrown to the ground on Saturday and she was told the water only belonged to ANC members.Mtsi yesterday confirmed being notified of the situation and said he had referred the complaint to Pakati s office. Such resources do not belong to any particular party, but are state resources that should be enjoyed by all, Mtsi said.Pakati and mayoral spokesman Ayabulela Ngoqo could not be reached for comment at the time of writing yesterday.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said if true, it was unacceptable that municipal resources were used to benefit only certain people. asandan@dispatch.co.za