Mdantsane FM board chairman and businessman Bethwell Zulu fought off what is believed to be an attempt on his life Sunday night. The incident took place at one of Zulu s businesses in Mdantsane around 8pm.Zulu, who survived an attempt on his life two years ago, said it was very early for anyone to anticipate a robbery at that time.Zulu, who owns Emsini, a popular pub and braai place in Mdantsane s NU8, told the Daily Dispatch yesterday that four men had walked into the bar and gone to the meat counter. One asked for the prices whilst others looked around. I noticed that another one was drawing a gun. It was then that I jumped for him and we wrestled for the firearm, said Zulu.During the commotion, Zulu s friend Xolile Thwethwe got shot.Zulu, who was wrapped in bandages when the Dispatch visited him yesterday, said the attackers managed to make their way to his office where they pointed a gun at one of his assistants and took all the money that was in the office before fleeing the scene.The businessman and his friend were rushed to Cecilia Makiwane hospital, which is about two streets away from the pub.Thwethwe sustained injuries from the bullet that hit him while Zulu was treated for minor wounds sustained during the struggle with his attackers.Two years ago the businessman was shot in the face during another armed robbery.Zulu described the second robbery as a shocking and a traumatic experience. It is such a coincidence because I was planning to follow up on the first attack that happened two years ago. I have not received even a single contact from the police reporting on the progress of the case, said Zulu.Captain Mluleki Mbi confirmed that a case had been opened at the Mdantsane police station in NU12 on Sunday evening. We received a call on Sunday at around 8.20pm informing us of the shooting at Emsini. We responded to that call and sent out officers. We have not made any arrests so far. We welcome any assistance from the community, said Mbi. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za