&nbsp;The Tolo Commission set up to investigate and recommend on the rightful person to fill incarcerated king Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo s throne has recommended that the king s younger brother, Prince Mthandeni Mankunku Dalindyebo, be installed as acting king. The findings of the commission on Traditional Leadership Disputes and Claims led by Bagudi Tolo was tabled by the commission s chief executive Abram Sithole in Mthatha yesterday.This was done in the presence of the royal family, cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa and national Traditional Affair director-general Dr Charles Nwaila.The frontrunners for the acting king position were Dalindyebo s son, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo and Mankunku.The commission found Dalindyebo s wives were not yet ranked in terms of seniority and, in accordance with the custom of ukudalwa kwezindlu (declaration of seniority). King [Dalindyebo s] mother, Queen NoMoscow Dalindyebo, was the last queen of AbaThembu to be ranked and therefore it is her sons [that would] be considered for kingship and acting kingship. Nkosi [Mthandeni] is the only available son from the great house to act as a king of AbaThembu in terms of their custom, the report read.The commission found that an AbaThembu King can only have an heir once the custom of ukudala has been performed and in the case of King Dalindyebo, this custom has not been performed. The king has not married a woman who is from a royal house; all his wives are [common law] wives. Therefore, in terms of custom, it will be premature for anyone to talk about King [Dalindyebo] s heir since the custom of ukudala has not been performed, read the document. The commission said there has never been a case where a son acted in his father s position while the father was still alive, instead a sibling of the king would act.Xasa told the media the commission was not the one to make a determination but was recommending the king s brother to the royal family. The royal family will need to come together to agree on the way forward. As the government we expect the royal family to appoint the person who should be the acting king. If they do not agree with the recommendations [they must inform us]. So, it is now purely in the hands of the royal family.Xasa added that Dalindyebo s certificate of kingship recognition has not been withdrawn yet.Those supporting Prince Mankunku led by Chief Thanduxolo Mtirara and his brother, Chief Daludomo Mtirara, appreciated the commission s recommendation while those supporting Prince Azenathi led by Chief Thandisizwe Mtirara and Chief Mfundo Mtirara vehemently objected.Chief Thandisizwe said: We cannot appreciate such a report full of misrepresentation of facts. We still maintain that Prince Azenathi is the rightful person to act. Chief Daludomo said the outcome of the commission was in line with the custom of AbaThembu. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za