A traumatised woman has told of a night of terror as she was abducted, held hostage and gang-raped for hours by a group of men in a sports clubhouse, while slipping in and out of consciousness. The 29-year-old victim s horrific 14-hour rape ordeal, during which she was tied up and gagged, has left her so badly battered and in such a state of shock that she can barely recall the savage attack.The woman whose identity cannot be revealed due to the nature of the crime was abducted and a gun put to her head while she was walking down Highfield Road in Port Elizabeth at about 6pm on Monday.An unknown number of assailants covered her head with a blanket and forced her into a nearby vehicle.The gang then drove the woman to a rundown football clubhouse in Gelvan Park, Schauderville, 2km away, at the corner Olympia streets.In an interview yesterday, the distraught victim cried uncontrollably.She was abducted after storming out a house after an altercation with her older sister shortly before 6pm. I went to walk and clear my head. I was walking towards 4th Avenue in Highfield Road, when someone put a gun to my head from behind. They put something over my head so I couldn t see anything [and] pulled of Amazon and me into some vehicle. I could feel the gun. They took me to a place where they put a sock in my mouth and tied my hands and legs together. I don t know how many of them there were. They raped me for hours. I was in and out of consciousness the whole time. I can t remember anything or even remember what they said to me. The victim said the men held a gun to her head the whole time. While I was in and out of consciousness, I saw the building s windows and doors were all broken but I didn t know where I was. I remember it was dark outside and I was screaming, but no one could hear me. Then I came around and had a blanket over my body. I managed to pull the sock out my mouth and scream for help. No one heard me for a long time, but eventually someone came. She was rushed to Dora Nginza Hospital for treatment and was released late on Tuesday night. Her 37year-old sister said the family was shocked by the attack. My sister has been sleeping and can barely walk. I am so angry. We want answers and we want justice. The only items stolen were the woman s shoes and pants.Police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said the motive for the attack was unknown and no arrests had been made as yet. Detectives were still gathering evidence.