Despite an abject apology from Samwu and Amatola Water for an inconvenient wildcat strike at 10 water treatment plants and their return to work, water supply is still on and off. In Berlin home-baker Heather Knickelbein was outraged, calling the days of outage a big crisis . She said a BCM tanker appeared on Monday but ran dry, left and did not reappear. But for that, we have not had water since Saturday. We can t bath, shower, cook, bake or use the toilets. It is out of control! I am sitting idle. We pay rates and taxes! she ranted.Khaya Witbooi, chairman of the Berlin Residents Association, said the cuts were intermittent. But now it is back. He said supply might not be reaching everyone and in a joint statement on Monday, board chief executive Lefadi Makibinyane and Samwu s Amatola region chairman Victor Totolo said they were working around the clock to restore supply to everyone.The board provides bulk and direct water to about 50 0000 people.Makibinyane and Totolo said: [We] profusely apologise to the communities of the Eastern Cape which were affected by the disruptions to water supply as a result of the industrial action at the water board, which took place from Friday to Saturday. We as the Amatola Water family are apologising unreservedly to every community member in the province affected and vow that such inconvenience will not happen again. They said all water treatment plants were fully operational and networks (reservoirs) were filling up.The men extended heartfelt gratitude to Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane for resolving the impasse .Her intervention was the top demand of the strikers, and Mokonyane flew in to meet with all parties on Saturday. She set up an investigation into their grievances, among them that board chairwoman Nokulunga Mnqeta was meddling in Samwu politics.Samwu had been demanding Mnqeta be fired because of charges she is facing of defrauding her previous employer, Aspire.She, in turn, accused Samwu of blocking her investigation into malfeasance.The minister s intervention also led to the board s corporate services director, Yondela Roboji, being placed back on suspension until her case of misconduct is concluded.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi was unable to provide official comment by the time of going to press. mikel@dispatch.co.za