The Amatola Water supply crisis hangs in the balance as Minister of Water and Sanitation, Nomvula Mokonyane, flies in today to try and resolve the illegal strike by 360 Samwu workers. Bulk drinking water supply to half-amillion people in a vast area from the coast to the Amatola mountains has been under strain after union members abandoned their posts at 11 treatment plants last Friday.This affected supply to Buffalo City Metro (BCM), the Amathole District Municipality, parts of Chris Hani District Municipality and a number of surrounding municipalities.Large parts of BCM from Mdantsane to Bhisho, Dimbaza and King William s Town have been without water.The South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) is demanding the sacking of board chairwoman Nokulunga Mnqeta over allegations of causing chaos and stoking factionalism, and for being accused in court of defrauding development agency Aspire, where she served as CEO, of R310 000.A letter from Mnqeta s attorney Vunyani Majebe last week is believed to have sparked the strike. Mnqeta yesterday confirmed she was threatening to sue Samwu Amatola regional chairman Victor Totolo for defamation.She attacked Samwu for recklessly and unreasonably instigating employees to embark on an unlawful strike about a matter which is completely unrelated to the employees conditions of service. It is unreasonable of Samwu to expect the Minister to remove me simply because there are allegations that I have committed a crime. I m entitled to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. She said the board believed there were various factions in Samwu giving conflicting messages . One of these is opposed to Mr Totolo. Not all employees support the reckless actions of Samwu. She claimed the true reason for the strike was to stop a board investigation into maladministration within Amatola Water .Totolo said the Minister s decision to drop everything was welcomed by unionists who decided yesterday to suspend their strike pending the outcome of the talks. Yes, we will have water this weekend. The Minister is coming. There is hope, he said.Andre Dyer, Amatola Water s service operations manager, who, together with three engineers and technicians kept the treatment plants going all week, yesterday said no Samwu workers had pitched for work.Dyer said an emergency management system devised after a strike last year had kicked in quite successfully, but Bhisho was without water. The lines to Bhisho and King William s Town have been cut off. We suspect water is running out somewhere. We were pumping from Laing Dam, but the reservoirs were not filling up. He said plants at Laing and Nahoon dams were shut yesterday, but would be running again by last night after contractors and extra security had stepped in. The guys tried to sleep yesterday. I had an hour here and there to go home and eat and dos. I would ask my wife to wake me with a Berocca, he said. Water is life. Poor little babies and old people worry me. We fight on. He looked at a telemetric (water level) control board and said he did not think East London would be badly affected as its supply dam, Bridle Drift, fell under BCM, not Amatola Water.Mokonyane s spokesman, Mlimandlela Ndamase, said the minister would try and resolve the impasse by also meeting with the board. mikel@dispatch.co.za