A family of seven, including a sickly grandmother, are forced to live in a wrecked house that could collapse at any moment, after a municipal truck allegedly crashed into it. Gladys Ndzulu was watching television with her family in their home in NU 2 Mdantsane on the evening of September 18 when they heard a loud bang and felt the house shake.The shocked family discovered a truck had knocked down their security fence and hit their house, leaving the walls unstable.The family immediately called the police, alleging the truck driver was under the influence of alcohol.Ndzulu claimed municipal officials evaluated the house two days after the accident, followed by a representative from an insurance company.She said they were told the house was unfit for occupation and the family would be moved to a temporary structure.The Daily Dispatch sent questions to Buffalo City Metro spokesman Sibusiso Cindi, who yesterday said he was still waiting on a response from the relevant officials at the time of writing yesterday.He promised to respond today.When Dispatch visited the house yesterday, large cracks could be seen in the living room walls.Furniture had to be moved because a wall looked as if it could topple over at any time, and the kitchen cupboards have been completely destroyed.Ceilings have also been damaged and are falling in. The house s water pipes and electricity are also faulty.The frustrated family said they were sent from pillar to post every time they visited the municipal offices to enquire about the accident.Ndzulu said a Mr Machisi, who they had been told would assist with the matter, had never been available to talk to them. She further wrote a letter to the municipality on October 10, requesting immediate evacuation as the family were living under life-threatening conditions.They claim they have not had any feedback in terms of progress made. We honestly feel this case has not been handled with professionalism and the sensitivity it deserves. Our health and lives are at risk because the house can fall down at any time, said Ndzulu.She said the children could not sleep properly, which affected their performance at school, and her pensioner mother had been left traumatised. I don t sleep at night. Imagine being told your house will eventually collapse yet the same people are not doing anything to help you, she said. I want the municipality to at least move us to a temporary shelter. I want my home to be fixed. qaqambam@dispatch.co.za