Issac Gxasheka, the principal and founder of King Private College in King William s Town, who denied abusing his female teaching staff amid a protest last week, is caught in a recorded audio clip lashing out at the teachers and accusing them of calling the Dispatch at last week s protest. Classes were interrupted last week after teachers and support staff picketed outside the school over allegations of ill-treatment by Gxasheka as well as non-payment of salaries. The teachers claimed that on a daily basis they suffered verbal abuse, threats and intimidation from Gxasheka, and that he was using xenophobic slurs against four Zimbabwean teachers.Eleven teachers have left the school since the beginning of this year following the alleged reign of terror by Gxasheka. Some of the ex-employees commended Gxasheka for founding the school but accused him of running it like his personal household.The Daily Dispatch can confirm that the matter is with the CCMA (Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration).Angry parents, who have thrown their weight behind the teachers, have called a meeting for today that would be preceded by a shutdown of the school. In a meeting recorded with a cellphone after the protest, Gxasheka can be heard chastising the teachers and promising them that there would be consequences for their actions. In his tirade he reminds teachers that the school was his brainchild and that it would still be operating long after the teachers had gone.He launches a wave of attacks and shouts down anyone trying to raise a point. A teacher can be heard bursting into tears after Gxasheka told them payment of salaries was a topic for another day.This is after a teacher interjected to ask about their salaries. The sobbing teacher lashes out, saying: Your children Mr Gxasheka are attending school but our children can t go to school because we can t pay their school fees and have no food but now you re telling us that it is a topic for another day. In the tense and emotional meeting Gxasheka keeps repeating, I m going to get you . You can play your games, go tell your labour, and go tell your media go tell everybody that this is what I m saying. If you think I m being rude, you haven t seen anything. I ll be rude until you take your things and leave, this is my baby, Cramp, this is my brainchild, Gxasheka tells Grade R teacher Megan Cramp, 27.Gxasheka said the teachers should have exhausted all internal processes before protesting first speaking to him, then the labour union followed by the CCMA.Teachers claim that they had been trying in vain to talk to Gxasheka, who allegedly shrugged them off every time they tried to have a meeting.Gxasheka also accused the teachers of misleading the school by signing the work register before they went to picket last week.The teachers claim they have had to borrow money for transport to work and their children had been going to school without food. The meeting escalated into a screaming match. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za