Eastern Cape traffic officers are owed more than R9.2-million for overtime. This was confirmed by provincial transport MEC Weziwe Tikana, who said the money was owed to hundreds of traffic officers based across six districts. It excludes traffic officers from Nelson Mandela Bay and Buffalo City metros.As a result, traffic officers from the affected districts had stopped working overtime until they received the money owed to them.The OR Tambo district, with some of the heaviest traffic flows in the country, has been particularly hard-hit by the action.Replying to parliamentary questions posed by DA MPL Mashall von Buchenroder, Tikana revealed that the figure could be much higher as the R9.2-million covered only overtime between May and July.Asked by Von Buchenroder for the reasons for discontinuing the overtime payments and what steps had been taken to correct it, Tikana wrote that the delays were due to a change in the approval system for overtime pay. The procedure was changed and centralised at provincial treasury. The department has been paying 100% remuneration in overtime due to operational needs, Tikana said. However, treasury was not convinced of this scenario and insisted on [a] 30% limit as per the public service and administration regulations. She added that the provincial treasury had since approved and authorised 100% remuneration of overtime until the end of August. Hence, the first batch of payments has already been effected. The department is further engaging with labour on a possible approach to maintain remuneration of overtime within the 30% limit, the MEC said, adding that the immediate payment of the R9.2-million was currently being processed .Popcru provincial secretary Zamikhaya Skade yesterday said the union was happy about progress made in payment of the overtime.The move to boycott overtime duty was taken last month by officers based at the Amathole district office in Wilsonia, East London.On September 26, the disgruntled officers did not work beyond 4pm.At the time, the officers said they were tired of being treated like slaves , while working awkward hours. In a letter addressed to traffic district manager Ntombikayise Mayeza, the officers said there was no clear definition between normal overtime and time worked on public holidays.Traffic officers are paid more for work done on public holidays.The officers also complained about a 2012 circular, which stated that officers should not drive state vehicles for more than 2500km a month.They said this limited them in executing their duties.Von Buchenroder said with a few weeks to go until the December holiday period, it was crucial the matter be resolved.Provincial transport spokeswoman Ntombizomzi Bala yesterday said the overtime issue was being attended to internally and all outstanding overtime claims are in the process of being paid, while some have already been paid out . asandan@ dispatch.co.za