An East London home improvements contractor about to row across the Atlantic with two friends said he was going into the gruelling 5000km race with his eyes wide open . Charl Gale, 49, is well aware of all the challenges in store when he sets off from the Canary Islands at the start of the Talisker Whisky Challenge in mid-December.He knows about stormy weather, sleep deprivation, bum blisters and the daily mental and physical grind of rowing for hours on end because his close friend, Port Elizabeth businessman Stuart Connacher, 50, did it solo last year. I did the logistics for him so I know what I m getting myself into, said Gale, who will be joined by Connacher and Wayne Johnson, 46, a South African yacht charter business owner living in Antigua, the end point of the race. I was in Antigua when Stuart came second in the solo category last year and he immediately asked me to row with him this year, said the father of two, who spends six hours a day building up his core strength.Not a big eater, Gale now has to pile on 12kg ahead of his departure for La Gomera in the Canary Islands at the end of November. At 5.30am I ate six eggs, four pieces of toast, four bangers, mashed potato and a weight gain shake. I have to eat three burgers and three packets of chips. Chunking up provides storage of much-needed fat to fuel days of arduous rowing which burn up to 16000 calories a day. We can only eat about 8000 calories a day so will lose between 15 to 20kg during the race. Gale said his biggest fears were encountering a submerged shipping container and sinking. But safety and security is unbelievably good in this event. The friends have set their sights on winning the trio category as well as the overall event, and plan to make the crossing in less than 40 days. The race cut-off is 90 days. But it s all about the weather and we are praying for good currents and winds to push us across the Atlantic. The trio is raising funds for the Smile Foundation, which provides free reconstructive surgery to children with facial deformities like cleft palates and cleft lips. I have watched doctors perform these life-changing operations. Children come out of the ops looking perfect. To make a donation visit www. smilefoundation.co.za barbarah @dispatch.co.za