More than 20 Eastern Cape artists will have a chance to share the stage with big names such as soulful jazz vocalist Monique Bingham at the upcoming Mzantsi Cultural Festival. The event takes place at the Buffalo Park cricket stadium later this month. It is organised by Posega Lifestyle, which has hosted East London s All White Spring Affair for two years.Other big names who will be performing include Mobi Dixon, Ma E, Msaki, Tresor, Sphectacula and Naves. The host of the show will be Thembi Seete.One of the supporting acts who will be taking to the stage is DJ Nko, chairman of the United East London DJs organisation.The organisation has more than 30 DJs, including both new and seasoned artists.DJ Nko, whose real name is Nkosinathi Sikoti, said the organisation was about equipping DJs with business skills and working towards development for artists.Sikoti said he was pleased with the number of artists that the organisers of the event had included in their lineup. It feels good to know that organisers also think of us. We always feel neglected and at times it s almost like we are begging when we ask to be included in the lineup on some events, he said, adding that it was time that event organisers acknowledged and used more local talent. Sometimes we don t even get paid but I am happy now because the organisers approached me, I didn t go out asking them to book me. This shows that they care about artist development. Out of their 35 DJs, Sikoti said five were going to be playing at the Mzantsi Cultural Festival on October 29.Supporting acts include Mthatha s well-known DJ PK, Mozent, Agent Lungaz, Mfundisi, Misser House Fanatic, Six, Slogan, Biggz, House Natives, Thee Phoenix, DJ tee, 2Zero, Cooley S, Kholo, Charlie Deepstar, Usiba Noncwadi, Taung Child, Lapeafa, MDK featuring Black Jam, Nito Hush and Arno Steez.Tickets for the event cost R150, R500 for VIP and R1300 for VVIP. VIP tickets come with a complimentary bar, private parking, private toilet facilities and a waitress. VVIP tickets will also get lunch, dinner and security.Posega Lifestyle s Natasha Mgqibelo said with less than two weeks left before the big day, they had been doing street activations around the province. Our posters are up around East London and our Oxford Street banner was erected last Friday. We are ready for the big day. Tickets sales are also doing well, she said.lPosega Lifestyle is giving away 10 double tickets to Daily Dispatch readers.To win, name one of the supporting acts who will be performing. E-mail your answer to competitions@dispatch.co.za.The competition closes tomorrow at 5pm. Winners will be contacted by Friday. poliswap@ dispatch.co.za