Business management students at the East London Management Institute (ELMI) will put theory into practice when they run their own businesses at the college s market day today. ELMI director Robyn Elliott said the market was a practical component of the diploma which required an entrepreneurial task.When the Daily Dispatch visited the Oxford Street campus yesterday, students were hard at work setting up stalls and hanging bunting for the country-style market day, which is on between 10am and 2pm today. It gives them a feel of the real world and is an opportunity to run a business. Students formed groups, chose a product, did market research on campus and compiled a mini budget. Students who didn&#8217;t have money had to present a business plan in order to borrow money and had to show how they will pay us back. For marketing management student Lubabalo Namba, 29, the market day is an opportunity to launch his innovative culinary idea of Africanised sushi.Namba, who moonlights as a waitron in a Beacon Bay restaurant, and his group of fellow students would be manning the Kushi Kingz stall. It looks like sushi, but instead of rice there will be pap and instead of fish we will use lamb, chicken, bacon, biltong and wors. Spinach and cream will substitute for ginger and wasabi. It s for those who like the sushi concept but want to switch it up a bit, said Namba, whose Kushi combos sport names like Hey Wena, Awe Platter and Moerse Ding.ELMI academic head Ang Gibbons said business management stalls include a tea garden, car wash and a henna tattooist. Other budding ELMI entrepreneurs have moved in on the enterprising action. Graphic design students will be selling their art, the human resources class is vending cocktail dresses and costume jewellery and a part-time student has made shoes from old tennis tackies. Someone is making non-alcoholic cocktails and a Grade 11 pupil will be selling clothes and bags.The lecturer has joined in the creative fun by making rings from buttons.l The ELMI market day is on campus at 231 Oxford Street between 10am and 2pm today.