The #FeesMustFall movement has been infiltrated by forces whose agenda is to provoke the police to the point where there are fatalities attempting to create another Marikana the South African Police service has said. Acting national commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane said that information at our disposal suggests that the #FeesMustFall initiative has been infiltrated by forces with agendas not aligned with those who seek free education to advance themselves .His comments come after Marikana the site of bloody clashes which left 44 dead after a protracted mine wage dispute in 2012 was this week invoked by both a protesting student leader at the University of the Witwatersrand and its vice-chancellor.Wits student representative secretary-general Fasiha Hassan said we will not have Habib s Marikana after vice-chancellor Adam Habib had told a higher education imbizo: I have listened to some protesters who say that they want their own Marikana. Phahlane said the intelligence the SAPS has is being followed up and those involved will be dealt with accordingly . The SAPS will continue to exercise maximum restraint and manage the attacks and provocation within the confines of the law the proportional use of force will characterise the work of the police he said. We will endeavour to protect lives and property in accordance with our Constitutional mandate. Police officers were engaged in running battle with students at Wits on Tuesday after the university had attempted to restart the stalled academic programme. The chaos resulted in academic activities again being suspended and police were asked to withdraw to the perimeter of the Wits campuses.Phahlane said police and all law enforcement agencies who are actively engaged in policing the #FeesMustFall protest are commended for their behaviour and for exercising maximum restraint throughout their policing of protests and those whose conduct leaves much to be desired . It is during trying times like these that members are reminded of the oath of office and the Code of Conduct which demands from us to serve our people with integrity honesty respect and without fear or favour he said. No amount of attack insults or emotions must generate behaviour unbecoming of any one of us. We will remain loyal committed and dedicated to the Constitution and execution of our mandate. 