After a sold-out album launch two months ago, Jason Gladwin is returning to his hometown next week for one night only. Gladwin will perform at the C Club in Chintsa next week Saturday. The 23-year-old indie-folk singer, who is based in Port Elizabeth, launched his debut album titled, Untamed in East London at Legends Showcase in August.Since then he has been travelling around the country promoting the album. Shows have been amazing. At my Cape Town show Majozi joined me on stage and we did the last song together. It was amazing. I have also been gigging around Port Elizabeth as well. Gladwin not only sings but also plays the drums, guitar, ukulele and piano.He said his performance in East London next week would be the first in the city since his album launch. I was blown away by the number of people who came through to support my gig. The venue was sold out and I am hoping we will get the same reception in Chintsa, he said.He added he would be selling his album at the venue. At the moment I am selling the album myself but we are working towards getting it on digital. It takes a while though but we hope it will be out on iTunes and Google Play soon. While many struggle as independent artists, Gladwin said working for himself had given him the opportunity to explore his work. I get to be as creative as possible and it s all my influence, not a label but me and I get to own my music. Maybe one day I will sign to increase my following but for now this works, He leaves today for the RnGOktober Festival taking place in Zambia at the weekend. He will be performing alongside South African artists such as Micasa, Heavy K, Oskido and Uhuru. I am nervous about my performance in Zambia because I will be performing just before Micasa. This will be the biggest festival that I have ever performed in, he said.Gladwin said he was grateful to be among the South African artists to be performing in the festival. The guy who hooked me up with his gig used to book me for gigs in Grahamstown and now he is based there. I am lucky to be able to share my music with more people. Gladwin has had the opportunity to play alongside leading South African bands and artists such as The Parlotones, Al Bairre, Jeremy Loops, The Plastics, Matthew Mole, Majozi, Crash Car Burn, Prime Circle, Dance You re On Fire and Dan Patlansky.He has also headlined the Wild Kei Fest in the Eastern Cape and has played at festivals as far away as Mpumalanga.Gladwin said he looked forward to performing in other African countries after this weekend.Catch Gladwin at the ChintsaLiving event next week Saturday at the C Club in Chintsa East. Tickets for the event cost R30 at the door. poliswap@dispatch.co.za