A former Gonubie couch potato is the muscle behind the Worldwide Aquathon phenomenon which will involve thousands of energetic, swim-suited people in 76 countries next month. Rose Hartzenberg, 47, said the aquathon will be held in gyms, clubs, public pools, residential pools and even porta pools on November 12. There will even be an aquathon in the sea in Cyprus, and in the Maldives it will be held in the sea and a river. There will also be one on an MSC passenger liner that will be docked in Inhaca island in Mozambique. I never in my life thought this would end up on a boat! Hartzenberg s love affair with aquatic aerobics began in 1999 when she joined a class to shake off post-pregnancy weight she had picked up five years before. I just fell in love with it and lost 15kg in six months after also changing my eating plan. Hartzenberg completed an aqua instructors course through the South African Water Fitness Association (Sawfa) in 2004 and now teaches an impressive 28 classes a week in three gyms and a physiotherapy practice.Her aquathon days started small, with just one pool full of aqua enthusiasts slicing through the water for three hours, but in 2013 she decided to go global. The reason for the aquathon was to promote the benefits of aqua fitness, but when I spread the message on Facebook I didn t realise how huge it is overseas and 42 countries took part in the first year. The Worldwide Aquathon has grown each year and next month she is expecting 182 venues in 76 countries including the States, Italy, Spain, Argentina, Russia, Australia, India and Portugal.On November 12 these venues from porta pools to massive public pools will swing into action with three hours of non-stop, music- fuelled aqua exercises. People can do an hour or two, but those who last the whole three hours get a certificate. Hartzenberg said she was overwhelmed with the spread of the Worldwide Aquathon day, which raises money for charity. The East London event will be held between 9am and 12 noon at Body Culture gym in The Hub at Beacon Bay with the R50 participation fees going to St Bernard s Hospice. I have had so many successes with aqua fitness classes. One man progressed from a wheelchair to a walker. It has helped with weight loss and improved sleep patterns, and it is also good for diabetics because it increases circulation. Hartzenberg said her youngest pool exerciser had been four and the oldest 90. Some associate aqua fitness classes with grannies, but young people are shocked at how demanding it is. barbarah@dispatch.co.za