AbaThembu royal family yesterday agreed with a few dissenting voices that King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo s younger brother, Prince Mankunku Mthandeni Jongisizwe Dalindyebo, would take up the reins as acting monarch. Women, including Dalindyebo s wife Queen Noluntu Dalindyebo and some of his sisters, ululated and danced as the elders and other male royal family members erupted in royal praise, Ah Jongisizwe! Now, as all the royal houses of King Ngangelizwe agreed on Jongisizwe as our acting king, we will send the royal family resolution to the premier Phumulo Masualle for confirmation of Jongisizwe as our acting king. We are happy that we will have an interim leader, said Chief Daludumo Mtirara.Yesterday s meeting was called by Mankunku, 47, following the outcome of the Tolo Commission, which recommended him as the rightful person to act.Others within the family were backing the king s son Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo to take on the role of acting king.Mankunku, during his maiden speech yesterday, said: Bumbane is the home of all of us the children of Jonguhlanga [the late King Sabata Dalindyebo] and we must all live in peace and harmony as siblings and people of the same blood. Since Dalindyebo was incarcerated in December 2015, the royal place has remained locked and his siblings were evicted. It was then broken into and vandalised.The meeting was held in the streets outside the locked main gates of the royal palace. This is the home where all the children of my brother King Zwelibanzi [Buyelekhaya] should perform those rites. It cannot be locked as if we are all dead, said Mankunku.He offered an olive branch to all King Dalindyebo s wives. I am extending an invitation to all the wives of my brother and their children that we must work together and unite this family. But the agreement to appoint Mankunku was not smooth sailing during yesterday s meeting.There was almost a clash when Azenathi s supporter Chief Zwelodumo Mtirara objected to his nomination.Some of Mankunku s other sisters and cousins, including Nomabhotwe, Dududuzile and Nomathokazi Mtirara, shouted at him until they were calmed down by Chief Daludumo Mtirara, who was chairing the meeting.Dalindyebo s eldest sister, Komkom Dalindyebo, who supports Azenathi, also caused a scene.Both Chief Thandisizwe Mtirara and Chief Zwelodumo Mtirara attended the meeting to register an objection that they were not supporting Mankunku, but were adamant that the rightful acting king was Azenathi.Security was beefed up and there was high police visibility with the Mthatha cluster commander in one of the police vans the whole day. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za&nbsp;