Three thrilled East London primary school pupils have heard that their art has been selected among thousands of entries to illustrate a calendar for next year. Every year since 1953, insurance giant Santam has selected 13 winning artworks from their annual Art Child competition, which forms part of its corporate social investment programme.The creations are used to illustrate the 10000 annual calendars Santam prints and distributes around South Africa.Mbalentle Ondala, eight, from Cambridge Primary, Jenna Muller, nine, from Stirling Primary and Thulani Mayiphume, 14, from Khayalethu Special School, made it to this year s top 13.Ondala s teacher, Cheryl Kent said South African children needed more exposure to art events and programmes.She said: Projects like this allow childrens imaginations to take flight and the results are testament to that. This year, Santam received 3426 entries from around South Africa under the theme: A few of my favourite things .From these, 341 artworks were selected for an online exhibition, which will go live in the first quarter of next year.Fourteen artworks from Cambridge Primary pupils were chosen for the online exhibition.Ondala, in Grade 2, drew inspiration for her artwork titled Roller skating down the road after seeing a picture of someone roller skating.Her teacher, Kent said Ondala adored drawing. She uses her creativity to full advantage as she enjoys illustrating her own written work. Her flair for colour combinations is unusual but proves effective as the vibrant colours are eye-catching. She also uses colour to depict a mood, which is quite astounding in one so young, Kent said.Grade 3 pupil, Jenna Muller, drew a picture of her mother Tracy to give to her on Mothers Day.Tracy said she was extremely proud of her daughter. Jenna has always loved drawing. She is big on clay art right now. We are not sure where she gets it from because no one in the family is artistic. Dinisile Qapha, a support teacher at Khayalethu Special school, described Mayiphume as creative and diligent.The school was extremely proud of him and was delighted that a pupil from their school was being featured in the calendar.His artwork, Township houses , was inspired by his own township. Thulani is a very creative pupil. He absolutely loves drawing, not just at school but at home too, Qapha said. qaqambam@dispatch.co.za