After six years of not releasing any new music, South African singer, actress and TV presenter, Lebo Tisane is back with a new gospel album, titled In Love. Tisane, who is affectionately known as Elle, made her debut in the music industry in 2002 with the release of her R&amp;B album, Is khathi Time. The album saw her getting her first South African Music Awards (Sama) nominations in the best afro-pop category. Many will remember her for her smash hit single which has now become a classic, Nobody but You.She has played the character of a young Miriam Makeba in a musical directed by the legendary Duma ka Ndlovu, called The Journey.In 2004 she released her second album, Front Cover, which also received a Sama nomination in the best R&amp;B category.In 2009 she released her first gospel album, titled The Album.Tisane said she was excited to be making a comeback in the music industry after taking time out to focus on her business. A lot of people are happy that I am coming back and I can t wait for them to hear my new music. What I always say is that the entertainment industry is seasonal. You don t always have work but I am blessed that I am my own boss, said the proud mother of two.Tisane recorded her first live DVD at Atterbury Theatre this February. My first gospel album that I released in 2009 was my way of telling people this is who I am and this is how I was raised. This album speaks about the love that God has for me and the love that I have for Him, she said.She also added that she has been through a lot in her life and she does not know how she would have walked through the hardships without the love of God. At some point I completely lost my voice and I couldn t speak. I consulted with doctors and one suggested that we operate but by the grace of God I didn t, she said, adding that after six months of not being able to talk her voice came back. I have seen the power of God work in my life. For someone else a voice is nothing but this is my life, it s my butter. This album is about me expressing my love for God. I am not saying God loves me more or anything but I am talking about His love. I know I am loved. Tisane said she hoped the album would inspire people and make them aware of God s love.The long-awaited 19-track double disc and DVD features artists such as Colbert Mukwevho as well as Rofhiwa Manyaga.Tisane said it was available from all music stores nationwide. poliswap@dispatch.co.za