BY SINO MAJANGAZA and SILUSAPHO NYANDAProtesting Walter Sisulu University students were yesterday prevented from entering the venue where the Buffalo City Metro council was holding an imbizo. Two Buffalo City law enforcement officers were seen pointing pistols into the air and shots were heard.Student spokesperson Zolile Zamisa said they went to the stadium to make their grievances known to the mayor, who is also the chairperson of the ANC in this region .BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi denied that law enforcement used live ammunition. Shots were fired to disperse them, but at no point was live ammunition used, he said.Cindi refused to say what kinds of shots were fired. However, a BCM traffic officer who wanted to remain anonymous, said that under normal circumstances law enforcement personnel carried real guns . It is only when they are called or aware of a protest that they also carry rubber bullets, he said.Earlier, a group of students disrupted classes demanding lecturers release students for a 10am meeting. After the meeting the students marched down Oxford Street and up to the Jan Smuts stadium where BCM mayor Xola Pakati was holding his mayoral imbizo. On arrival the students were met by the armed BCM officers who fired pistols into the air as the students attempted to force their way in. Students already inside the stadium were chased by law enforcement officers carrying handguns.Several shots were fired and the students dispersed.After they left the stadium they moved to Southernwood.In WSU s Mthatha and Butterworth campuses learning continued as normal. WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo yesterday denied the protest was linked to fees.She said the students were unhappy with lack of progress on demands filed in August concerning accommodation. Most of the demands had been fulfilled, but there have been delays due to procurement processes which cannot be bypassed. It s business as usual on campus despite the protests, and students understand that they cannot disrupt the staff as this would further delay the procurement process. In Port Elizabeth Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) students are set to return to class today after a four-week hiatus following #FeesMustFall protests.Administrative staff reported for duty yesterday in preparation for the resumption of classes.NMMU spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said they expected a peaceful return to class.It comes after a clubhouse was razed to ashes during the early hours yesterday. Mbabela could not say what led to the fire.At Rhodes University, after a quiet day, there were violent protest actions last night as stones and rocks were thrown at the Postgrad commons and geology building.Police responded by firing stun grenades, teargas and rubber bullets and were seen to be apprehending at least six students in clashes which extended to the upper campus around Cullen Bowles residence.Earlier classes appeared to have returned to normal following two weeks of protests, negotiations, student arrests and destruction of university property.Rhodes spokeswoman Catherine Deiner said the academic programme was continuing. On Thursday a small group of students went to various dining halls and intimidated and removed staff from their work stations. The small number of staff who were present at the Kaif were not involved in any union-authorised activity. Last week labour union Nehawu said it supported a proposed student stayaway.The University of Fort Hare also saw a return to classes after protests the Alice and East London campuses against the proposed 8% fee increase for 2017. The students have returned to class because most of our demands were met except the 8% issue, said SRC leader Zizipho Malindi.Alice students had also demanded a change in the security company used by the institution after reports that students belongings such as laptops, cellphones and stationery had been stolen from their rooms with access by what seems to have been a master key. Additional reporting by Mbali Tanana and Dave Macgregor