A grieving Reeston family who buried their loved one on Saturday suffered a double trauma after the grave containing the coffin was left open for hours after the funeral service concluded. Thembeka Smayile, 59, said when they buried her sister-in-law they thought they had begun to find some closure. But when we got the news of the [still] open grave at 8pm on Saturday, it just opened our wounds; everyone wept afresh, she said.A Daily Dispatch team visited the Scenery Park cemetery yesterday and saw a closed coffin containing the body of an 81-year-old man in an open grave.A cross bearing the man s name and dates of birth and death was lying on top of soil next to the grave. Under the cross was a pink receipt from BCM showing that the family had paid for burial services, including the digging and filling of the grave site.The slip was left by the family under the cross for municipal workers to see proof of payment so they could fill the grave.However, the workers never pitched. The receipt showed that the family had paid R1700, which included the cost of the plot. The Dispatch was unable to get comment from that family.The grave containing the body of Smayile s sister-in-law, Nokozina Guwa, 60, was eventually filled by family members on Saturday night, after being left exposed for hours.Guwa s nephew Elliot Xolo, 36, said the family was shocked when they arrived at the Scenery Park cemetery for the funeral but did not see municipal workers around. Someone told us that the workers would arrive in the afternoon to fill the graves, he said.The grave was left uncovered after the service when the family left. They then decided to return later that night to see if the municipal employees had been there. We got there at 8pm with our spades and shovels in the car with us just in case they hadn t filled it up, he said.They found it empty and filled it themselves, worried that the casket could be stolen.Smayile said the news shocked and traumatised her. She said they first reported the matter to police so they would not be suspected of criminal activity if spotted in the cemetery at night. I wept afresh last night. The shock made me emotional. Everyone at the houses started feeling pain all over again. Smayile said they had also wanted to lodge a complaint about the grave being too shallow but no one from the metro was there.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said yesterday the metro would launch an investigation into the matter. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za