The Democratic Alliance is to approach the Western Cape High Court to have the appointment of former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng as Group Executive of Corporate Affairs declared invalid. DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe said this had been decided after consultation with the party s legal counsel. In so doing we are asking the courts to make a determination that Mr Motsoeneng is not a fit an proper person to hold any position at the SABC much less at executive level given a slew of adverse judicial findings against his qualifications and conduct throughout his tenure Selfe said.The DA also had concerns about the legitimacy of the constitution of the SABC Board itself and whether its conduct was compliant with the prescripts of the Broadcasting Act which governed it he said. As such the DA will also be asking the courts to make a determination of the suitability of the incumbent Board and proffer legal certainty on how the Board is to be dissolved and a new one appointed. Motsoeneng and the SABC Board have been the subject of scathing judgments by the Western Cape High Court and the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). Mr Motsoeneng aided and abetted by a dysfunctional SABC Board and the Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi has for too long gotten his way while at the same time undermining the Public Protector the Judiciary and the people of South Africa. Just yesterday ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu finally acknowledged that the reshuffling of Mr Hlaudi Motsoeneng to a new position is illogical on the basis of the Public Protector s egregious findings against his initial appointment and the numerous court judgements reaffirming this Selfe asserted.He said it was never ideal to approach the nation s judiciary on these matters but had become necessary in the face of uncooperative government agencies who refuse to give effect to their statutory obligations to operate in the public interest . The DA is committed to restoring the integrity and independence of the SABC and the first step is to ensure that it has the right leadership. As such it will participate fully in in all processes to reestablish the credibility and integrity of the public broadcaster. The DA will therefore brief the media on further details of our court action in due course Selfe added.