&nbsp;Two Walter Sisulu University (WSU) senior lecturers, accused of using fake masters degrees from a United States university to study towards doctorates, have been cleared of any wrongdoing by the university. WSU conducted a probe into Dr Danie Bessinger and Dr Christoffel Louw s masters degrees, which allowed them to study towards doctorates at WSU.Allegations surfaced last year that their Masters of Science (mechanical engineering) degrees obtained from LaSalle University in the US in 2001 were in fact fake.The Dispatch reported at the time that La Salle University was shut down in 1996 after an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation found that the university was a diploma mill , which sold degrees and diplomas via the internet for a maximum bargain price of $3700 (R47000).The outcome of the WSU probe, conducted by the university council chaired by Judge Nambitha Dambuza, resolved not to recognise the validity of their masters qualifications when the pair studied for doctoral degrees at WSU.WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said while their masters degrees had been part of their portfolios on previous training and experience presented at the time of their admission to the doctoral degrees, the admission to the doctoral degrees was not based on the masters degrees as such, but on all previous learning and experience. The council considers conclusive the fact that the programme on which the two members of staff were permitted to register for doctoral degrees not only recognises specific degrees attained, but previous learning and experience acquired. In the end, the WSU council is satisfied that, at the time of their admission to the doctoral degrees, the two academics had met the WSU requirements for the degrees to which they were admitted. Therefore their doctoral qualifications are valid. Tukwayo said the pair had enrolled for masters in engineering (M Eng) through distance learning at La Salle and had obtained their degrees two years later after completing the required course work.They then registered for WSU doctoral degrees in education, which they obtained in 2012. Because La Salle University was not accredited, council resolved not to recognise masters degrees obtained from that institution, which means that WSU does not recognise the M Eng degrees that the two staff members had obtained. Council then considered the effect of the non-recognition of the La Salle qualifications on the doctoral degrees obtained from WSU. The investigations revealed that the staff members were accepted into the doctoral programme in Education via the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) programme, Tukwayo said.She said in 2008, the university s Faculty of Higher Education committee resolved to allow the two academics to register for the doctoral degrees (Doctor of Education), on a five-year programme, on condition that they completed certain research and course work. Having completed their doctoral degrees a year ahead of the set period (four years) Messrs Bessinger and Louw were permitted, by the relevant university committees, to graduate. It confirms its satisfaction that the integrity of these staff members remains intact and trusts that they will continue to serve the university with distinction, Tukwayo said. msindisif@dispatch.co.za