Grade 12 Umtata High School pupil Phumzile Rozani is the toast of her school after being named the Eastern Cape s top achiever in this year s National Accounting Olympiad. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday Phumzile, 17, said she was both surprised and pleased with her achievement. Until I entered I knew nothing about the Olympiad, I had no idea what to expect, so being a first time entrant I did not think I would go very far so it was a pleasant surprise, she said.The annual Olympiad is open to all Grade 12 pupils in public and private schools studying accountancy or mathematics and aims to increase awareness of the importance of accounting to the South African economy, as well as the range of career opportunities available to them.The competition consists of two rounds, each consisting of a two-hour examination. The first round of 2016, written in May, saw 3510 pupils from 310 schools competing. A total of 980 learners, consisting of the top three learners in every region, qualified to enter the second round in July.Mthatha pupils seemingly dominated in the province as on the private school front, Viwe Anna secured the first spot, with Uluntu Ndamase coming in second and Nwabisa Nyelenzi finishing in third place. All three are from the Holy Cross Education Centre.On her achievement Phumzile said it was testament to the high levels of education at the school and quality of teaching provided by their teacher, who encouraged her to enter. I do not know where my love for accounting began but I know it s my path and everyone who knows me knows that accounting is my thing and my teacher knew this. She had so much faith in me and encouraged me to enter, she said.Phumzile is on her way to studying towards a Bachelor of Accounting Sciences, having received provisional acceptance to Wits University. I want to specialise in forensics accounting, investigating companies for fraudulent activities. Mismanagement of public funds is a serious problem in our country and I want to lend a hand towards ending it, said Phumzile.Her teacher Fezeka Msutwana said Phumzile had always been a bright pupil and did well in all her subjects. There was a team of three and although they did not go through they also did well. But Phumzile was the team s anchor and I knew she would do well, she has a teachable spirit and I know she will go far, said Msutwana.The national and provincial winners will be honoured at a formal National Gala Awards Evening in October. ziphon@dispatch.co.za