A host of Mdantsane schools will be getting another taste of rugby action today as the second Blitz Rugby festival takes place at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium, kicking off this morning. Umzuvukile Sport Development and Management is hosting the event that will see 1800 kids from 18 schools taking part in the day of fun rugby action as they learn to play the game. It is really a fantastic day out for all the schools and kids taking part, said managing director of Umzuvukile Sport Development and Management, Mzuvukile Tempi. It is not only the kids who are looking forward to the event, as the school teachers who come and learn to coach and the parents of the children who come to experience the day are also excited and enjoy it. I am expecting to see a really great vibe at the stadium and I am expecting an awesome day of fun for everyone involved and I encourage anyone interested to come out and see what the day is about. The initiative was started earlier this year when Umzuvukile Sport Development and Management partnered with Cape Town group Global Performance Management, who have rolled out the blitz rugby programme across the country.This partnership, which is in conjuncture with SA Rugby, has three stages that are introduced at schools that don t have rugby as a sport so as to introduce the game and then prepare the kids to play the sport. When Global Performance Management came down and attended our first blitz rugby festival they were very impressed with what they saw and are eager to continue our partnership next year, said Tempi. Don t forget that this programme has three phases and we are in the first phase, so we still have to move onto the second phase next year. With this being the second event and with future events in the pipeline for next year Tempi is eager to bring more people on board through any companies who want to partake in the initiative and also with the local government who were not at the first event. I had a really good meeting with the Buffalo City Municipality and have submitted some proposals to them, and they have shown an interest in this endeavour. Hence we are partnering with the municipality for this event and hopefully many more, said Tempi. The Buffalo City Municipality will be sending various dignitaries to come and see the event and be a part of the day as well. With such a large contingent of kids taking part and so many schools already on board for this event it is all set to continue to grow and thrive as it moves forward.The action gets under way from 9am this morning and should be concluded by 2pm this afternoon.