By BARBARA HOLLANDS, MSINDISI FENGU and SILUSAPHO NYANDAWith protests persisting at many universities, Eastern Cape matriculants who have applied to study for a degree have entered their final exams facing an uncertain academic future. Education experts have warned that the consequences of the student protests could be dire.Eastern Cape education expert Ken Alston said if universities decided to close the academic year it would not only impact on students, but on this year s matric class too. I don t think the majority of people realise how terrible it could be. If those (university) exams are not written they would have to be written at the beginning of next year with supplementary exams to follow at later dates, he said.Alston said the situation was further complicated by the fact that universities could not accept and register new first-year students until they knew how many students they already had in their system.In the Eastern Cape Rhodes University (RU) has only 1800 spaces for students for next year, Walter Sisulu University (WSU) 7500 spaces and Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) approximately 6000 spaces.The University of Fort Hare (UFH) was unable to provide figures at this time.Three matriculants, who are part of 94928 full-time registered pupils sitting for exams this year spoke to the Saturday Dispatch about their prospects for next year.Clarendon High School for Girls matric pupil Mame-Diara Mbaye, 17, said there was blatant fear in her class regarding going to university next year. Some are thinking of taking a gap year or are applying to study overseas. Fellow Clarendon matric Rebecca Mqamelo, 18, who has been accepted to study at the University of Cape Town (UCT) and Stellenbosch next year, said uncertainty surrounding protest action had cemented her idea to take a gap year in Germany next year. I think many young people have mixed feelings about the protests. I believe in the principle of free education, however when I look at the violence I m not so sure I agree with that. Mqamelo said she was also worried about whether being in close proximity to police and violence would be an academically conducive environment to be in.John Bisseker matric Hlankanipha Tshalanga, 18, said he was planning to study medicine at WSU next year. I don t want to de-legitimise the campaign because I do understand it, but I am deeply disturbed that Fees Must Fall had been characterised by violence and vandalism. Nahoon Pilates studio owner Christine Morling, whose daughter, Hudson Park High School matriculant Maya-Rose Godden, 17, has been accepted to study film at UCT, Stellenbosch University and Wits University next year, said the situation was worrying. I have sympathy for the students and understand the issues, but I think it s not solved by violence. I m really concerned about what will happen next year and my feeling is it would be good to have a year off to see if the situation settles. But if Maya wants to go (to university), I would pay and take a chance. Rhodes University spokeswoman Catherine Deiner said the university had endured incalculable costs in terms of not only physical damage to property but in terms of emotional costs too. The process of assessing damages and getting reports from departments is ongoing, Deiner said.The university has continued with the academic programme, including plans for exams while it has made concessions and given amnesty to those who could not submit assignments or course work due to protests.She said management had met stakeholders, who had shown their commitment to ensuring the successful completion of the 2016 academic year.WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said protests had been taking place at Buffalo City campus since Tuesday. She said management had not been presented with a memo detailing students demands.It was unclear whether the protests at Buffalo City campus were part of #FeesMustFall or associated with a stalemate over constituting the SRC at Buffalo City campus.Students formations, the South African Students Congress, Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania and Student Christian Organisation have been at loggerheads on campus over the allocation of seats following SRC elections recently.Other campuses in Mthatha, Butterworth and Queenstown have already constituted their SRCs. Staff have not been able to access the Potsdam site to assess and quantify the damage. Once this learning site returns to normality, we will assess damage, said Tukwayo. The other three campuses are operating normally. NMMU spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said although the university remained open, lectures continued to be disrupted at the South Campus.She said several initiatives had been made and exam dates would be published once the assessment of programmes by faculties has been completed .Mbabela said damage amounted to approximately R1.7-million.UFH spokesman Lizo Phiti said there were no protests at the university following a meeting held recently with parents.Phiti said the university would only know about spaces available for next year once exams had been written and the number of students who had passed or failed was known.Exams are scheduled to be held from November 14 to December 2.Education expert, Graeme Bloch, said the violence had destroyed public goodwill garnered by the #FeesMustFall protests last year.He said this year s protests were building disunity instead of unity .He called for a cooling of heads. Attitudes are hardening. Government must take the lead by coming to the table. 