By MBALI TANANA, ZIPO-ZENKOSI NCOKAZI and MKHULULI NDAMASEFinal matric exams started yesterday with thousands of Grade 12 pupils sitting for their computer applied technology paper yesterday morning. The three-hour exam, which partly consisted of theory but mainly of practical exercises, started at 9am.Beaconhurst School head of department Lynette van Greunen said 21 pupils sat for the exam yesterday, while the rest of the matriculants would be writing their first exam next Wednesday. It has been a fairly smooth start for the first batch of matriculants and they are confident they have done very well, she said.Olwethu Mvusi said it was a big relief that the final stretch of exams was finally under way. It has been a stressful time studying and preparing for the exams. Now that we have started, it feels like a weight has been lifted off my shoulders and I can see the light at the end of the tunnel. Keisha Laurens said the first paper marked the end of high school drawing nearer. It s surreal, the countdown is on and the pressure is mounting. As much as I am excited about the end of high school, I m working very hard to get through this last hurdle. At Stirling High School, a group of 36 pupils sat for the exam.Chad Moodley said he was confident he had done very well in his exam. I skipped a few questions about the data stuff. It was a bit confusing but I know I did well in everything else. Hannah Kent said the last question seemed very new to her. The database section seemed completely new and time just didn t seem enough for the exam. Meanwhile at Ngangolwandle Senior Secondary School in Xhora, pupils picketed and locked four auditors and teachers inside the school yesterday.The auditors were there to investigate ghost pupils but pupils demanded answers as to why they had been given contrasting timetables for the final examinations with different dates for the same subjects for different pupils.Those who were repeating Grade 12 will apparently be accommodated at a different examination venue at the Xhora Community Hall while others will write at the school.School principal Wisizwi Billie referred questions to the department.Education department spokesman Mali Mtima had not responded to questions at the time of writing.