A child of six has dropped out of school as he is very afraid of his teacher. I am not going back to that school. I am scared of my teacher, said the Grade 1 pupil at King s Mission Primary school in Kwelera. Pictures of the youngster, who may not be named, went viral on social media early this week showing severe injuries to his face allegedly caused by the teacher caning him.Earlier attempts by the Daily Dispatch to talk to the mother of the boy this week were unsuccessful as she claimed the teacher had threatened to sue her if she spoke to the media or opened a case against her.It was only yesterday, when in a visit to the family home, that the mother and boy s grandmother opened up about the incident.The granny alleged the school s principal had tried to talk her into dropping the matter. But I decided to stand up for my grandchild s rights that were violated. The boy s mother said her son came home from school with a swollen face last Friday and by the Saturday the swelling had increased to the point where he could not open his eyes.The mother claimed this was not the first time her child was beaten at the school. In August he came back with a swollen head and when I asked him what had happened, he said he was beaten by his teacher, she said, adding the family wanted the law to take its course. My child has now stopped going to school and knowing what that teacher is capable of doing, I cannot even force him to go there. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said a case of assault and contravening the Children s Act had been opened at the Blue Water Police Station yesterday.More parents from the village have come forward claiming their children had also been assaulted by the same teacher.Nosinothi Tato claimed her eight-year-old grandchild was slapped in the face for not being able to write last year. After he arrived from school he told me that his face was painful and was slapped by his teacher. We do not know how to deal with the matter, she said.Another parent, Terrence Dlebusuku, said his child, who is now eight, came back from school bleeding from his nose. I wanted to open a case, but the school principal pleaded with me not to and promised that she would talk to the teacher to stop beating children. I am surprised that she is still beating children, he said.A school governing body member who introduced herself only as Hlobani refused to talk to the Dispatch saying: There is nothing I can say, the mother has decided to open the case with the police. The school principal refused to give her name and did not want to comment, instead referring all questions to the department of education.Spokesman Mali Mtima confirmed they were investigating the matter. Once we have the full report we will decide on what action to take, he said. If the teacher is found guilty the department will follow the relevant procedures. sinom@dispatch.co.za