A task team will be set up to look into how traditional leaders can assist government to fast-track the early registration of children in rural communities. The team will comprise traditional leaders and senior officials in the Department of Home Affairs and will investigate how traditional council offices can be used to offer Home Affairs services to communities.Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba proposed the task team, between his department and traditional leaders, at a sitting of the National House of Traditional Leaders (NHTL) in Bhisho yesterday.He was addressing chairpersons of all provincial houses of traditional leaders as part of consultations on the progress made towards the adoption of the revised policy on international migration.Gigaba said his department would like to work closely with traditional leaders as they had plans to embark on a universal early child registration programme. Early child birth registration will tell us who was born here and who was not. It will help us establish the family tree and will be a credible database that will be able to help the Department of Basic Education to plan better. You cannot plan better while you are blindfolded. The biggest loophole [the department has] is the late registration of birth [certificates]. Gigaba said the late registration of birth certificates was exploited by people who arrived at the department claiming their parents had died and that they no longer had relatives to prove that they were South Africans.Last week, provincial education MEC Mandla Makupula said his department had spearheaded an initiative to verify the identity documents (IDs) of pupils, a move which he claimed was the first of its kind in the country.He said at the time that the department was working closely with Home Affairs and other security state organs.Makupula said the department would allocate school resources, other than the feeding scheme, to those pupils whose IDs had been verified.Gigaba said the department could use traditional council offices to deliver services to communities.Currently, people in urban areas enjoyed better services.The department needed to improve services in rural communities.The minister said skilled foreign nationals could be used by communities. The planned policy was to teach South Africans that they were part of Africa. We ll never be anything else, he said after a comment by the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders deputy chairman Prince Zolile Burns-Ncamashe that South Africans had lost their consciousness that they were Africans.Ncamashe said it seemed that xenophobia attacks were targeted at non-European foreign nationals. South Africans do not see themselves as Africans. msindisif@dispatch.co.za